---
date: '2026-03-13'
title: '3-13-2026 Evolution notes'
---
Theory of Mind
- develops during childhood
Language (especially using embedded predicates) enables higher performance on ToM tasks.

Teaching + social cognition enables cumulative culture
- <> language facilitates teaching

human pragmatic competence involves sophisticated ToM skills that allow humans to represent the beliefs of others in a way that is decoupled from their own representation of the world (e.g., Liu, Sabbagh, Gehring, & Wellman, 2004) and to entertain such representations up to several levels of embedding

**Potentially ToM before language**

- Language is made possible by mechanisms of metapsychology and is made powerful by mechanisms of association. Pragmatics-first account (exaptation)

> The advantages that full-blown ToM brings to such lives are an increased ability to predict and manipulate each other’s behavior and an increased ability for cooperation

==Ostensive-inferential communication==
- making it clear to others that we are intending to communicate something.
	- Opening your mouth
	- Starting a sentence and then ending it before finishing.
	
*a simplification so egregious it should be considered incorrect*

Individual differences in mental state understanding are strongly correlated with verbal ability, and that this correlation is, for the most part, explained by environmental (rather than genetic) influences.
- Verbal comprehension, reasoning, and expression

Theory of Mind: do chimpanzees understand physical location as it relates to the epistemic understanding of "Guesser" and "Knower"? *They don't know the difference between guesser and knower*. 
- Track of what others have seen (where others are humans)

There is evidence that chimpanzees will use their knowledge of hidden cups to their advantage. 

False belief tasks: when the competitor has the opportunity to witness a treat being moved falsely, the subject is able to choose the correct final outcome bucket.

- Chimpanzees can represent mental states, or at least keep track of what others have seen (where others are chimpanzees).

##### Krupenye et. al. 2016: Sally-Ann with Chimps
- Apes watch a human see the location of a treat and then leave. Treat is moved by another human before the first returns.
- There is a target location and there is a distractor location.
- Apes ==can== track the behaviors of others with their own false beliefs. Where the human last saw it (and should think it still is).

> RQ: where does the ape **think** the human is going to look for the treat?

So, apes can ascribe false beliefs to actors: this would be an implicit understanding of belief.

> TQ: Then, what are the selective pressures for pragmatics?
- Language is only useful in societies like ours
- Language + social learning + theory of mind + motivation to share our thoughts sets up preconditions for cultural cognition.

When I say "seattle is rainy", [you intend that [I believe seattle is rainy]].

==Beliefs== 
- ...are accessible to consciousness
- ...are compatible with other info in our minds
- ...are capable of being described/defined

> Protolanguage involving "first-order" metarepresentations, subdoxastic states.

Subdoxastic states are theorized to be mental representations which are not directly accessible to consciousness and cannot be rationally evaluated like beliefs.

Squaring the circle.

##### Honest Communication

- Sender and receiver are at odds: in a conflict of interest.
- If you are a better listener, you are going to survive.

**Ways to ensure reliability of signal**
- Make it costly to transmit the signal
- Causally-linked signals (e.g. pitch & body size)
- Language is flexible, and reliable.

How can language remain low-cost and reliable? The survival of language depends on it! When do sender and receiver both benefit from an exchange?
- Niche: CS student body
- Adaptive when individuals interact repeatedly
- Reciprocal helping + social alliances
- Adaptive when there is a mechanism for detecting freeloaders

This is empirically the picture with persistent hunting
- It is adaptive & reciprocal
- Theory of mind allows detection of freeloaders.