---
date: '2026-03-09'
title: 'Hermann 2007'
---
Children have much more sophisticated cognitive skills for "dealing with the social world".

==General intelligence hypothesis== states that humans can perform all kinds of cognitive operations faster:
 - greater memory
 - faster learning, faster perceptual processing, more robust inferences, etc.
 
Alternative is the **adapted intelligence hypothesis**. 
Cognitive abilities evolve in response to specific environmental challenges. 

- social intelligence allows the human to learn "more" at the critical period of time.

A subcategory of adapted intelligence is *ultra-social human hypothesis*: human adults have especially powerful skills of socio-cultural cognition, which ==bootstrap== the distinctively complex development of human cognition. These skills include
- social learning
- communication
- theory of mind.

##### Method: Primate Cognition Test Battery

Division between physical and social cognition. Physical cognition involves inanimate objects, spatial-temporal-causal relations, while social cognition deals with other animate beings. 

For social communication tasks:
- solving simple problem via observing demonstrated solution
- understanding communicative cues indicating a reward's location
- Producing communicative gestures to retrieve a hidden reward
**Theory of mind**
- Following an actor's gaze to a target.
- Understanding what an actor intended to do (unsuccessfully).

In the the graphs for figure 2, it is specifically the social learning tasks on which children outperform the chimpanzees and orangutans. The success rate is extremely lopsided, 0.9 vs 0.3 and 0. While children likewise outperform the others in Theory of Mind, it isn't anywhere near the social learning task. 

Research Question: Why is there not the ability to do an experiment in which the teacher is themselves an ape? To justify an increased social intelligence score, it seems necessary to actually provide empirical evidence of observed demonstration (e.g. chimpanzee cutting rope securing box).

Discussion Question: In the Henshilwood paper and our previous discussions, Theory of Mind has been proposed as a driver of symbolic (and linguistic) representational capabilities. What implications do these experimental results have for the link between cognition and language? 