[[Infoling final feedbacks for class]]
For this final squib, I'm interested in exploring predictability. Specifically, I will look in depth at the Huang et. al. paper, and then expand to touch on some other ideas in the literature, such as selectional constraints and collocational effects. I will propose some potential issues with the paper, and introduce alternative methodologies which might address these problem areas. I will outline what the results of the experiments I introduce should be, and what hypotheses it would confirm or deny.

Huang et. al. evaluate how readings times are affected by structural ambiguity. The authors test three kinds of garden path constructions within a large English-speaking user base, with each example disambiguating on a matched item in the sentence. First, they test constructions of the Direct Object/ Sentential Complement form: "the new doctor demonstrated the operation appeared increasingly likely to succeed" is initially ambiguous as to whether *the operation* is a direct object or a part of a sentential complement. Next, they test the constructions of the Transitive/Intransitive form: "after the new doctor left the operation appeared increasingly likely to succeed" is initially ambiguous as to whether *left* is transitive. Third, they test constructions of the Main Verb / Reduced Relative form: "the new doctor offered the operation appeared increasingly likely to succeed in her career", where *offered* is initially ambiguous as to whether it is the main verb or a part of a reduced relative clause. Each garden path construction disambiguates on *appeared*: in the first and second, *appeared* goes with *the operation*, while in the third, it goes with *the new doctor*.

They test four additional syntactically ambiguous datasets. First, they test the subject-extracted RC structure: "The class that disliked the teacher skimmed the reading for the week", in which the *subject* position for skimmed is empty. They then test the object-extracted RC: "the class that the teacher disliked skimmed the reading for the week", in which the object position for *disliked* is empty. They also look at relative clause attachment ambiguity, in which a relative clause modifies either of two noun phrases, a recent or distant one. Finally, they test subject-verb agreement, in which a corresponding item from the Transitive/Intransitive is made ungrammatical by changing the plural agreement. 

It is a long-standing result that predictability corresponds to the reading times of a sentence: with incremental comprehension, syntactic processing occurs while speakers navigate through a linear context, and increases on highly disambiguating words (such as *appeared*). Indeed, this is the main hypothesis of surprisal theory (Levy, 2008, Smith & Levy, 2013). As defined in Hale (2001), and drawing on Attneave (1959), the surprisal for a given word in a Context-Free Probabilistic Grammer (CFPG) is log($\frac{a_{n-1}}{a_n}$), with $\alpha_{n-1}$ as the prefix probability for the previous word and $\alpha_n$ as the current word's prefix probability. This measures the combined difficulty of disconfirming alternative structures at a given word, or the cognitive load, and with a flipped sign is equivalent to the language model's surprisal $-log(p(w_n | w_1 \ldots w_{n-1})$). 

In the Huang paper, they look at the surprisal of language models, to determine if it can serve as an effective proxy for predictability in humans. In order to link surprisal to reading times, they evaluate this coefficient on filler items, where they analyze how surprisal values of the current and prior three words correspond to the reading times of the current word. They perform this on prior words in order to account for spillover effects, in which the reading times for a word may be influenced by prior processing difficulties. With surprisal being the negative log probability assigned by the model to a word in context, they find that the effects of surprisal in a mixed-effects regression model greatly underestimates the magnitude of processing difficulty in humans. They find the greatest processing difficulty on the word immediately following a critical disambiguating word (e.g. "appear"), and the strongest effect on the Main Verb / Reduced Relative clause.

My first concern with this paper is on norming, and on the linear relationship between surprisal and processing times as determined by filler items. Norms were established on items for participants, in which example sentences were evaluated for plausibility: this established their general acceptability to the participants involved in the study. However, there was no norming process carried out for the language models in question: the authors check that the vocabulary was a subset of the Penn Treebank and Wikipedia training data, but this is not a valid assessment of plausibility for the models. If a model's evaluation of garden path sentences is highly improbable due to infrequent exposure, relative to the filler items, then the linking factor calculated between reading times on filler items and surprisal on filler items may be erroneously applied to the garden path probabilities derived from the language model. While it is true that surprisal should be a consistent predictor of reading times across syntactic constructions, more validation of model surprisal values seems important.

The assumption that the relationship between surprisal and reading time is linear, and be the same syntactically across simple and complex sentences is not unfounded.  The paper they cite from Smith and Levy 2013 provides evidence for a logarithmic effect between processing time and predictability, or a linear effect between processing time and surprisal. Importantly, this precludes effects arising from syntactic complexity, as such effects are expected to have been subsumed into surprisal metrics. Thus, showing that model surprisal does not neatly link to reading times could have implications for a surprisal-based account of language. However, there was no discussion of the surprisal values given by the model, relative to stereotypical constructions. The identification of a linking coefficient through forty unrelated filler items is problematic. In order to justify carrying out the experiment this way, filler items should have a similar degree of syntactic complexity, while being unambiguous. One opportunity for performing this linkage is to test participants with the unambiguous versions of the constructions, e.g. with an added relative pronoun: "The new doctor who was offered the operation appeared increasingly likely to succeed in her career". With linking times calculated from these examples, the justification for the linkage would have been more robust, reflecting the thematic and role-based associations derived from the text to a greater extent. 

My second concern with the paper is the conflation of surprisal theory with the linear association of surprisal and reading times. One argument against the linear linking of these two variables is the ambiguity advantage effect, which the Linzen paper tests and Levy (2008) writes about extensively. This ambiguity advantage is fully compatible with the parallel collaborative model espoused by Levy. As tested by Van Gompel 2005, this can be seen in reading times for statements like the following, where a and b are disambiguated while c is not:

a. I read that the governor of the province retiring after the troubles is very rich.
b. I read that the province of the governor retiring after the troubles is very rich.
c. I read that the bodyguard of the governor retiring after the troubles is very rich.

They find that c. results in faster reading times of the left attachment of the NP, where the ambiguity is unresolved. Levy hypothesizes that when reading 'retiring', the parallel interpreter assigns equal probability mass to "bodyguard" and "governor" attaching, and the probabilities "conspire" to rank a constituent attachment higher. On the other hand, a serial process would necessarily requires a costly reanalysis. This suggests that interpretation is performed in parallel. This relates to the results on surprisal: if a parallel process is additionally performed over the top model probabilities e.g. with beam search, this would account for the scale of the effect found on garden path sentences. Why is the MVRR effect greater than Direct Object / Sentential Complement? The difference in likelihoods of the direct object continuation and sentential complement might be greater than the difference between main verb and reduced relative clause, so that the disconfirmed hypothesis is less impactful. To verify this empirically, the probabilities of each class of continuation could be identified and compared. 

My third concern with the paper is on the variability of the local ambiguity nature of verbs within examples, to the point where the experiments may not be testing for syntactic ambiguity but rather lexical-level ambiguity. For instance, the *selectional constraints* which "offered" poses on the new doctor, as opposed to the operation, is the primary driver of ambiguity in the sentence: the typicality of the verb with the doctor as subject, or the operation as object. The respective main and reduced clause frames could be formulated as standalone sentences, and then compared by both humans and language models: for instance, reading times could be measured and surprisal could be calculated for "the new doctor offered the experiment to patients" and "the new doctor offered the experiment succeeded in his career". Then, these ratios could be compared: if there exists high variability of the ratio across different examples sharing a syntactic structure, e.g. the Main Verb/Reduced Relative, it is evidence that reading times are affected by the selectional constraints of the verb, irrespective of the underlying syntactic structure.

The test above bears similarities to the tests run in Appendix C on local phrase plausibility and verb bias. However, instead of testing specific standalone examples seen above, they give ambiguous fragments and recruit further participants to continue the fragment. They then define verb bias as the percentage of participants who chose the correct parse as the continuation. For instance, for the Main Clause/Relative Reduced example above, if three participants chose to continue "the new doctor offered the experiment" with "to patients", and one chose to continue with "succeeded in his career", then the verb bias would be 0.25. They hypothesize that verb bias should be inversely correlated to the garden path effect on reading times. This is because if the reduced relative clause is highly predictable, then the critical disambiguating word (e.g. appeared) would be less surprising. However, this assumes that participants' plausibility judgements when *reading* are modeled by elicited *written* continuations, which requires further justification. By conducting the experiment above, we can avoid making further assumptions.

An local constraints account might be enriched by considering selectional preference.  With "(doctor NP) offered" and "(doctor NP) performed", one might expect one particular reading to dominate, and consequently not expect as much syntactic ambiguity from "the new doctor offered the operation performed". In this case, it is still possible to get both readings (MV: "the new doctor offered the operation performed under anesthesia", RR: "the new doctor offered the operation performed it well"), but (on my intuition) the reading of *performed* is more likely to involve the operation, and subsequently the reading of *offer*ed more likely to involve the doctor. This is likely entirely due to selectional constraints, and not predictability of the syntactic structure as a whole. The selectional constraints could be those of "offered(operation)" and "performed(operation)", and so they could use the selectional association as adopted in the original Resnik paper, albeit with updated predictability metrics from neural language models.

One class of selectional preference that wasn't considered was the pressure on *verbs* from preceding subjects. As discussed in class, subjects as a whole tend to convey less information than verbs, which allows for the management of information density across a subject-verb-object construction. This motivates a difference in information, or entropy, in the subject-verb selectional preference. In "the new doctor offered the operation appeared increasingly likely....", the semantic distinctions being made are between the plausibility that a doctor is offering something, and the plausibility that a doctor was offered something: these distinctions, along with respective partial syntactic analyses, are then made clear by the proceeding context. This illuminates either the agent or patient role of the doctor. In this case, the question of whether an object is alternating can be picked out through the relative pronoun *who*. It should be straightforward to calculate selectional preference association for verbs, given the preceding nouns through a language model. Let $n_i$ be a noun, and $c$ a verb class. Then, the Subject-Predicate association could be adapted from that found in Resnik, to consider verb classes in lieu of noun classes:

$$A(n_i, c) = \frac{\Pr(c | n_i) \log(\frac{\Pr(c| n_i)}{\Pr(c)})}{S(n_i)}$$

However, it may be difficult to use this selectional preference in a meaningful way. In testing verb-noun verb phrases, the Resnik paper seems to be implicitly introducing direct subjects, weakening the generalizability of their argument. Similarly, if noun-verb phrases were tested across classes, a direct object would be suggested, which would make the resulting preferences inapplicable to statements with reduced relative clauses.

With the high availability of LM-based surprisal metrics, we can investigate other effects with reading time. This includes the "digging-in" effect outlined in Levy (2008). The garden path ambiguities seen in Huang (2024) apply to a small fraction of the syntactic ambiguities present in language, such that the results found may not be generalizable to all syntactic processes. Due to the regularization of items, they use the same syntactic structure for each pattern. For instance, the Transitive/Intransitive ambiguities uses S-V-S-V-AP: "after (the new doctor)(left) (the operation) (appeared) (increasingly likely to succeed)". We see the first verb is followed by an ambiguous NP, which is resolved as the subject of a second statement after reading. However, Levy (2008) uses a different example for displaying the NP/Z, or Transitive/Intransitive ambiguity. Consider the following S-V-S-V structure:

19a. As the author wrote the book grew.
b. As the author wrote the book describing Babylon grew.

In a self-paced reading study Tabor and Hutchins (2004), showed that 19b had longer reading times than 19a. This demonstrated that initial attachment preferences, in interpreting "wrote" as a transitive verb, were strengthened throughout the object noun phrase. This ultimately led to greater processing difficulties at the disambiguating word "grew". Levy writes that on the surface, there do not seem to be time-dependent positive feedback processes for syntactic interpretations in their model. However, they also argue that their surprisal-based account could still predict this result, as object NPs tend to be longer than subject NPs. Then, the length of the postmodifier in 19b would indeed lead to a lower likelihood for a verb such as "grew" at the end of the statement, and the subsequent realization by the reader that the initial verb "wrote" is intransitive. 

We can examine the results from a language model to see if this is true. 
