
The Linzen paper found that language model - log(P(w | c)) surprisal, the equivalent of next-word human surprisal modeled by the Eager Earley Parser, predicts the existence of human processing difficulty, but does not predict its magnitude. It did not predict the order of observed effects across constructions, and failed to explain most of the variance in the model outputs. They support serial parsing or limited parallelism, in particular beam search -- or a two stage sentence processing model where unlikely considerations are dropped. From their reading times study they replicate ORCs as harder than SRCs, disambiguation causing processing difficulties, and subject-verb agreements causing slowdowns in reading. These shouldn't be major findings in cognitive science but they are well supported. The contribution of this paper is somewhat unclear due to testing for both the hypothesis of psycholinguistic concept of predictability effecting syntactic processing, and in addition the use of word predictability in LMs for syntactic processing. They state that this casts doubt on localized language processing difficulty can be wholly reduced to word-by-word predictability from next word prediction, as Earley does.

The syntactic information density paper looks at frequency of that-production as a strategy for maintaining uniform information density, modeling it as $-\log(P(\text{CC} | \text{matrix word lemma}))$, while controlling for availability, frequency, and length variables such as  length(matrix-verb to CC), frequency of subj. head, cc subject type, repetition, and frequency of matrix verb. They find that this explains a plurality of 15% of the variance, where availability (frequency), dependency, and grammaticalization have effects as well. The paper we've read by Ferriera and Dell hypothesize that early mention (availability) is one reason to introduce that, whereas this paper takes the position of using *that* can be for managing uniform information density. Overall these two claims seem compatible, with availability being a speaker-internal factor and UID being an audience-design explanation. I like this paper a lot, although it simplifies assumptions.

I'd be interested in looking at context-specific effects from the Linzen paper, as they seem to treat any syntactic category as equivalent, and actually report that "the size of the effect of interest varied substantially across items". This seems to be a significant area where further research could be done. Asides from this, the U-curve from the presentation on larger models exhibiting *less* human-like performance is interesting. Not enough attention has been paid to the training data, as the two training sets were 80 million words of Wikipedia and 40 gb data from web. They state that "neither model is trained on any explicit syntax" while still producing constraint-aware sentences in English. 

I think there are some issues with the methodology. They fit a linear mixed effects model on filler items which do not involve syntactically complex items to corroborate model surprisal with human reading times, and then use the derived conversion factors to predict reading times from surprisal on garden-path and other syntactic ambiguities. Why would this be the case? Surprisal could easily be bimodally distributed such that the relation between low surprisal and reading times is different than high surprisal and reading times. Their eventual finding is only a matter of magnitude. Their choice of not log-transforming may have prevented this technique from working. It does seem to be the case that log-probability is linearly correlated to RT. They cite (Wilcox 2021) which seem to find essentially the same results in 2020 with a range of neural architectures: "Once perplexity is controlled for, we find no significant relationship between syntactic knowledge and predictive power."
