In the Conway paper, surprisal per color is quantified as the sum of surprisal for each word used to label *c*, across every potential word (which is typical). They find that as languages increase in communicative efficiency about color, blue and green remain the least efficiently communicated colors while red and orange remain the most efficiently communicated colors. Under the assumption that communicative efficiency increases the most with early items in color evolution, they ultimately find support for an alternative color language hierarchy to that proposed by Berlin and Kay. They also raise objections to their framework, as lacking an objective basis for their color space and subsequent naming. Based on communicative efficiency, their model predicts colors emerging in a warm-to-cool scheme: red, orange, yellow, brown, purple, and finally blue and green. In Figure 7, Brown and yellow undergoing the dramatic changes in high-communication efficiency may be an artifact of the binary classification algorithm: the underlying data does not demonstrate the same distinctions. I'm curious what color terms were identified by the Tsimane' speakers who did not spontaneously use the focal terms, as there seems to have been a wide range of dissent on terms. 

They turn to the usefulness of color as a determiner for color-term variability and evolution. I'm not convinced as to why they see yellow, brown, and purple as distinguished by their usefulness. Are natural objects more likely to be warm hued than cool hued? Many edible plants are in cool color shades (blue and black colors). In addition, their arguments for yellow being a more salient color also do not seem well-founded, as it is implausible that it would hold utility as a method for distinguishing skin tones. It seems that there are cases in which green and blue are important focal colors to distinguish, e.g. in determining the ripeness of fruit or characteristics of water features. The environments in which Tsimane' speakers actually utilize the terms given could illuminate more about the utility of color identification in pre-industrial societies.

The Hahn paper looks at the dual pressures hypothesis brought forth by Zipf and others from the perspective of a tradeoff between parseability and predictability. They show that spoken languages optimize for both, far more than random baseline grammars. They measure parseability as efficiency, or the information utterances provide about their syntactic structure, and predictability as surprisal, as we have seen described elsewhere. They suggest that Greenburg's correlations, and the empirically observed dependency-length minimizations in languages, may be explained purely in maximizing parseability and predictability. Parseability is based on the listener probabilities of reconstructing syntactic structures: I'm wondering why they would expect parseability of a random baseline to approach the actual parseability of languages: both the notion of randomness (which seems to be *uniformly distributed over syntactic relations*) and the reliance on listener probability are potential threats to validity here. Figure 6, where they compare singular empirical data to the distributions among optimized grammars, is somewhat misleading as the width of the bar is arbitrarily set. The weighted sum seems to be an odd yet necessary component to this paper. 