The no-schwa, syllabic [r], and schwa + [r] words are posited to all be on "one continuous process" of reduction. The implication that there is an ongoing process is a strange one, as word frequency and time are not correlated linearly. There is no evidence that memory will be pronounced 'memry' in the future. 

There also seems to be a clear distinction between these two categories: at least for me, there is no difference in phonological representation and realization for the no-schwa forms, while there is a correction that occurs for the syllabic-r. If I hyperarticulate 'every', it is still produced as 'evry'. However, if I hyperarticulate 'memry', I will add the schwa back in. This could still be on a continous mechanism albeit with a activation threshold.q

The experiments which purport to show certain regular high-frequency past tense verbs really belong to the lexicon are not quite convincing me. They demonstrate that high frequency verbs have a much higher rate of /t/ /d/ deletion than low frequency verbs in non-prevocalic contexts, and argue that this is a consequence of their belonging to the lexicon and thus being amenable to deletion in production. But if this is the case, why do *any* of the low-frequency verbs delete /t/ and /d/? The binary distinction created by the lexicon seems to be a bad fit for capturing this distinction. Further complicating things is the supposition that phonemes exist as abstract patterns over the lexicon. How would we model sound changes affecting certain high-frequency verbs differently than low-frequency verbs, if only certain examples of 'ed' are in the lexicon?

The exemplar model is said to be successful due to validating the findings of Bybee on sound changes which are both lexically and grammatically abrupt. It is a model in which the effects of word frequency are observable in the speech of individuals, both synchronically through cross-lexical comparison, and diachronically through longitudinal comparison of single distributions. The notion of long-term exemplar storage seems plausible from the perception side. The story for production seems more complicated than the picture they present here.

Lenition, specifically hypocorrection, is presented as a systematic bias on the randomly selected exemplar. Combined with entrenchment, this view has some flaws. It seems that the farther a lenited change is from the original, the more examples would need to be heard to narrow the variance through entrenchment: but this is intuitively not the case. The other odd notion is that of lenition affecting all distributions over phonetic qualities at an equal rate, which is not the case.

It seems conceivable that instead of a bias (which would also lack a target) there is a distribution corresponding to lenited forms from which a speaker samples from. This would explain speech patterns well without suffering from the flattening effects, but would require assigning greater cognitive capacity to the production process.