
Two of the readings for this week, "How Efficient is Speech" and "The Smooth Signal Redundancy Hypothesis", posit relationships between language redundancy, duration, and prosodic prominence. The first and third readings both study vowel reduction. The first finds that vowel reduction occurs more frequently in highly predictable contexts. 

In How Efficient is Speech, they assume that higher level structural effects lead to redundancy and prominence, which both end up predicting word reduction. They are not as explicit about what model might predict their results: instead, they state that information structure increases efficiency of speech at the segmental level. They find that a variety of factors can account for variation in duration and formant contrast, which include the number of syllables, prominence, lexical stress, and word position. Instead of using stress, they choose to model prosodic prominence as a categorical distinction along function/content words, which raises the question of whether their definition of prominence is comparable to the SSRH paper's. I am confused by their emphasis on word position, taken as a highly informationally theoretic signal, being important for the level of reduction. The high amount of unaccounted for noise may result from not controlling for speaker, speaking style, and recording session. They find that (lexically-based) prosodic prominence accounts for around 16% of the variation in word duration. This makes some sense, given that their version of prominence is more coarsely defined.

On the other hand, the SSRH paper explicitly proposes that prosodic prominence smoothes signal redundancy through modulating syllabic duration, so that overall redundancy is affected by both acoustic (durational) redundancy and language redundancy. Importantly, prominence is treated separately from boundaries: boundary data is modeled through Tones and Break Indices criteria, whereas prominence is vowel fullness, lexical stress, and phrasal accent. They find that prominence accounts for 50-60% of the word duration variation, and that prosodic boundaries provide significant unique contributions. They find a small but significant contribution to duration by redundancy alone.  My biggest issue with this paper is that it is not clear what the distinction between prosodic prominence and boundaries means from the standpoint of the Smooth Signal Redundancy Hypothesis. 

The SSRH paper models all phonemes as identical, and their durations as standard deviation from log mean. Their combined model of redundancy and prominence also fails to model all of the variance in word duration. They suggest that while redundancy largely leads to prosodic structure (which then leads to word duration effects), there may also be psycholinguistic or phonological constraints at play.  In general, both papers find some inverse effects of language redundancy (syntax, semantics, givenness) on word reduction, irrespective of prosodic prominence. They also find inverse effects of prominence on word reduction. 

The first paper "Probabilistic Relations between Words" was very concerned with lexicalization as a factor in function word reduction, and in fact find strong evidence that the supposed effect of conditional probability on vowel reduction (which would be a redundancy effect) is dependent on pair probabilities. The other two papers don't seem to consider this distinction at all: they most likely would group lexicalization into language redundancy as a whole. 

What variables might contribute to word reduction outside of prosodic prominence and language redundancy? Psycholinguistic variables and cognitive constraints seem like the most viable explanation to me. I don't think that givenness is necessarily "language redundancy", but likely more a cognitive constraint. Some other unconsidered constraints might include embedding, rhetorical strategies, unfamiliarity with the speaker or with the task, and reciprocal effects from the other speaker.