In "Predictability effects on durations of content and function words in conversational English", the authors look at the phenomenon of word reduction as it relates to a number of environmental correlates: word frequency, previous and next conditional probabilities, and repetition. 

They find that while the reduction of function words are only highly correlated with previous or following conditional probabilities, the reduction of content words are additionally highly correlated to both frequency and repetition. This supports their conclusions that function words have "special" differential access (production is not affected by repetition or frequency), while content words do undergo a variety of reductive processes relating to lexical activation. To explain contextual probability effects across the board, they note that collocations i.e. syntactic units may lead to shorter lexical access times and reduced words. To explain repetition effects for content words, they point to the well-supported theory that the activation at the conceptual level is raised by the first mention, and correspondingly reduced in repeated words.

The paper fails to fully consider audience-design explanations when exploring the implications of their theory, as they believe that audience design would necessitate previous-word probability being a highly significant factor in both function and content word reduction. As they acknowledge prosodic and collocational effects supporting the notion of contextual probability effects stemming from ease of lexical access, this is an overly simplistic dismissal. Audience design could plausibly explain the repetition and frequency effects for content words: more common and repeated words may not require full realizations. Furthermore, the link between comprehension and production applies to the listener as well, so that listeners could benefit from contextual effects and speaker reduction adapt accordingly. 

In order to exclude disfluencies from the corpus, they end up removing all words next to pauses, filler sounds, and repetitions: these are disproportionately function words, and they claim those words are typically longer and less reduced. I'm curious if there was analysis done on duration reduction correlating to the time since the beginning of a conversational turn. In my experience, speakers frequently start out with unreduced words and reduce more after time has gone by.

They count repetition as the number of times a lexeme is mentioned by either the speaker or the listener, but then exclusively focus on the internal cognitive phenomenon of lexical access in explaining repetition; however, hearing and speaking a word are two different things. It would be interesting to see if repetition by each party still correlates to content word reduction. Intuitively, I would expect speaking to affect lexical access of a word far more.

This study is exclusively from a telephone corpus of conversational English. Which of the effects might be expected to generalize to other settings and languages? In languages such as Mandarin Chinese, it seems that syntactic units can undergo extreme reduction, e.g. from "I know" *wo zhi dao* to *wo zhao*. In Articulatory limit and extreme segmental reduction (2013), Chen and Xu find that extreme reductions are not unique to high frequency words or casual speech, but rather a severe form of undershoot. I wonder if there is a corresponding dichotomy between function and content, and if certain words evidence preferential lexical access for Chinese as well.
