---
image: http://irishrover.net/wp-content/uploads/2302472838_3d46616aeb_b.jpg
---
This book is written from a unique perspective. At the beginning of the novel, a stranger in a shady bar in Amsterdam introduces themself to you, marking you out as a "man of intelligence". The rest of the novel consists of his reflections and recollections of his life up until that point.

As a former famous lawyer who now identifies as a "judge-penitent", his confessions serve to permit him to live a life of superficial charity. Outwardly appearing as infinitely gracious, his service serves his own infinite self-obsession and disguises his complete lack of moral inhibition. By confessing the self-serving nature of his charitable actions, in a place like Amsterdam (the lowest circle of hell), he rises to a level where he cannot be judged. By proactively acknowledging of guilt, the judge-penitent offers the right to speak and live without the sting of judgement.

However, the story ends with two major realizations. 

First, the lawyer reveals that the story he has told you (over the course of five days in a bar and walking in Amsterdam) IS his way of avoiding moral guilt for the life he's lived. 

Second, in the implication that you ARE the person telling the story, a lawyer living in Paris, who one night on the bridges of the River Seine, failed to act when he heard the splash of a woman jumping.

> I dominate at last, but forever. Once more I have found a height to which I am the only one to climb and from which I can judge everybody. 

> I was wrong, after all, to tell you that the essential was to avoid judgement. The essential is being able to permit oneself everything, even if, from time to time, one has to profess vociferously one's own infamy. **I permit myself everything** again, and without the laughter this time.


## quotes

> I like these people swarming on the sidewalks, wedged into a little space of houses and canals, hemmed in by fogs, cold lands, and the sea steaming like a wet wash. I like them, for they are double. They are here and elsewhere. 
> Yes, indeed! From hearing their heavy tread on the damp pavement, from seeing them move heavily between their shops full of gilded herrings and jewels the color of dead leaves, you probably think they are here this evening? You are like everybody else; you take these good people for a tribe of syndics and merchants counting their gold crowns with their chances of eternal life, whose only lyricism consists in occassionally, without doffing their broad-brimmed hats, take anatomy lessons? You are wrong. They walk along with us, to be sure, and yet see where their heads are: in that fog compounded of neon, gin, and mint emanating from the shop signs about them. Holland is a dream, *monsieur*, a dream of gold and smoke -- smokier by day, more gilded by night. And night and day that dream is peopled with Lohengrins like these, dreamily riding their black bicycles with high handle-bars, funereal swans constantly drifiting throughout the whole land, around the seas, along the canals. their heads in their copper-colored clouds, they dream; they cycle in circles; they pray, somnambulists in the fog's gilded incense; they have ceased to be here. they have gone thousands of miles away, towards Java, the distant isle. They pray to those grimacing gods of Indonesia with which they have decorated all their shopwindows and which at this moment and floating aimlessly above us before alighting, like sumptuous monkeys, on the signs and stepped roofs to remind these homesick colonials that Holland is not only the Europe of merchants but also the sea, the sea that leads to Cipango and to those islands where men die mad and happy. (14)

> I even had the luck fo seeing the Legion of Honor offered to me two ro three times and of being able to refuse it with a discreet dignity in which I found my true reward. Finally, I never charged the poor a fee and never boasted of it. Don't think for a moment, *cher monsieur*, that I am bragging. I take no credit for this. The avidity which in our society substitutes for ambition has always made me laugh. I was aiming higher; you will see that the expression is exact in my case.
> But you can already imagine my satisfaction. I enjoyed my own nature to the fullest, and we all know that there lies happiness, although, to soothe one another mutually, we occasionally pretend to condemn such joys as selfishness. (20)

> Even in the details of daily life, I needed to feel *above* (23)
> ... I could understand that man who, having entered holy orders, gave up the frock because his cell, instead of overlooking a vast landscape as he expected, looked out on a wall. (24)
> My profession satisfied most happily that vocation for summits. I was concerned in no judgement; I was not on the floor of the courtroom, but somewhere in the flies like those gods that are brought down by machinery from time to time to transfigure the action and give it its meaning. (25)

> The judges punished and the defendants expiated, while I, free of any duty, shielded from judgement as from penalty, I freely held sway bathed in a light as of Eden.
>  Indeed, wasn't that Eden, *cher monsieur*: no intermediary between life and me? Such was my life. **I never had to learn how to live**. (27)

>  Just imagine, I beg you, a man at the height of his powers, in perfect health, generously gifted, skilled in bodily exercises as in those of the mind, neither rich nor poor, sleeping well, and fundamentally pleased with himself without showing this otherwise than by a felicitious sociability...
>  I was altogether in harmony with life, fitting into it from top to bottom without rejecting any of its ironies, its grandeur, or its servitude. (28)

> Have you noticed that death alone awakens our feelings? How we love the friends who just left us? .. Then the admiration springs forth naturally, that admiration they were perhaps expecting from us all their lives. But do you know why we are always more just and more generous toward the dead? The reason is simple. **With them there is no obligation**. (32)

>my concierge's wife, who had gone to such an outlay for the crucifix, heavy oak, and silver handles in order to get the most out of her emotion... (36)

> I knew a man who gave twenty years of his life to a woman .. who one evening recognized that he had never loved her. He had been bored, that's all, bored like most people. Hence he had made himself out of whole cloth a life full of complications and drama. **Something must happen** -- and that explains most human commitments. Something must happen, even loveless slavery, even war or death. Hurray then for funerals! (37)

>Just between us, slavery, preferably with a smile, is inevitable then. But we must not admit it. Isn't it better that whoever cannot do without having slaves should call them free men? For the principle to begin with, and secondly, not to drive them to despair. In that way, they will continue to smile and we shall maintain our good conscience. (46)

> I was always bursting with vanity ... I always considered myself more intelligent than everyone else, as I've told you, but also more sensitive and more skillful, a crack shot, an incomparable driver, a better lover. Even in the fields in which it was easy for me to verify my inferiority -- like tennis, for instance -- it was hard for me not to think that, with a little time for practice, I would surpass the best players. ... Fundamentally nothing mattered. War, suicide, love, poverty got my attention, of course, when circumstances forced me, but a courteous, superficial attention> At times, I would pretend to get excited about some cause foreign to my daily life. But basically I didn't really take part in it except, of course, when my freedom was thwarted. How can I express it? Everything slid off -- yes, just rolled off me. (48)

> I had dreamed of being a complete man, who managed to make himself respected in his person as well as in his profession. In short I wanted to dominate in all things. ... But after being struck in public without reacting ... If I had been the friend of truth and intelligence I claimed to be, what would that episode mattered to me? ... I was eager to get my revenge, to strike and conquer. As if my true desire were not to be the most intelligent or most generous creature on earth, but only to beat anyone I wanted, to be the stronger, in short, and in the most elementary way. The truth is that every intelligent man, as you know, dreams of being a gangster and of ruling over society by force alone... What does it matter, after all, if by humilating one's mind one succeeds in dominating everyone? (55)

> My relations with my contemporaries were apparently the same and yet subtly out of tune. .. The moment I grasped that there was something to judge in me, I realized that there was in them an irresistible vocation for judgement.  (78)

> Courteously, with a solidarity charged with emotion, I used to spit daily in the face of all the blind. ... Is there any excuse for that? There is one but so wretched that I cannot dream of advancing it. In any case, here it is: I have never been really able to believe that human affairs were serious matters. **I had no idea where the serious might lie, except that it was not in all this I saw around me -- which seemed to me merely an amusing game, or tiresome.**
> ... To be sure, I occasionally pretended to take life seriously. But very soon the frivolity of seriousness struck me and I merely went on playing my role as wella s i could. I played at beign efficient, intelligent, virtuous, civic-minded, shocked, indulgent, fellow-spirited, edifying... (87)

> By the way, will you please open that cupboard? Yes, look at that painting. Don't you recognize it? It is "The Just Judges"... if you read the papers, you would recall the theft in 1934 in the St. Bavon Cathedral of Ghent, of one of the panels of the famous van Eyck altar-piece, "The Adoration of the Lamb". That panel was called "The Just Judges". It was replaced by an excellent copy, for the original was never found.
> Why did I not return the panel? First because it belongs not to me but to the proprietor of *Mexico City*, who deserves it as much as the Archbishop of Ghent. Secondly, because among all those who file by "The Adoration of the Lamb" no one could distinguish the copy from the original and hence no one is wronged by my misconduct. Thirdly, because in this way I dominate. False judges are held up to the world's admiration and I alone know the true ones. Fourth, I thus have a chance of being sent to prison-- an attractive idea in a way. Fifth, because those judges are on their way to meet the Lamb, because there is no more lamb or innocence, and because the clever rascal who stole the panel was an instrument of the unknown justice that one ought not to thwart. Finally, because this way everything is in harmony. **Justice being definitively separated from innocence -- the latter on the cross and the former in the cupboard -- I have the way clear to work according to my convictions.** With a clear conscience I can practice the difficult profession of judge-penitent, in which I have set myself up after so many blighted hopes and contradictions.  (130)

> And now it is time, since you are leaving, for me to tell you what it is... As for the profession of judge-penitent, I am practicing it at present. Ordinarily, my offices are at *Mexico City*. But real vocations are carried beyond the place of work. Don't get the idea that I have talked to you at such length for five days just for the fun of it... No, now my words have a purpose. they have the purpose, obviously, of silencing the laughter, of avoiding judgement personally, though there is apparently no escape. (131)

> On the bridges of Paris [where he witnessed and made no move to save a jumping woman] I, too learned that I was afraid of freedom. So hurray for the master, whoever he may be, to take the place of heaven's law. (136)

> So I have been practicing my useful profession at *Mexico City* for somet time. It consists to begin with, as you know from experience, in indulging in public confession as often as possible. .. I mingle what concerns me and what concerns others. I choose the features we have in common, the experiences we have endured together, the failings we share -- good form, in other words, the man of the hour as he is rife in me and in others. With all that I construct a portrait which is the image of all and of no one... When the portrait is finished, as it is this evening, I show it with great sorrow: "This, alas, is what I am!" The prosecutor's charge is finished. But at the smae time the portrait I hold out to my contemporaries becomes a mirror.  (140)
> Covered with ashes, tearing my hair, my face scored by clawing, but with piercing eyes, I stand before all humanity recapitulating my shames without losing sight of the effect I am producing, and saying: "I was the lowest of the low." Then inperceptibly I pass from the "I" to the "we." ... I am like them, to be sure; we are in the soup together. However, I have a superiority in that I know it and this gives me the right to speak. The more I accuse myself, the more I have a right to judge you.
> How intoxicating to feel like God the Father and to hand out definitive testimonials of bad character and habits. I sit enthroned among my bad angels at the summit of the Dutch heaven and I watch ascending towards me, as they issue from the fogs and the water, the multitude of the Last Judgment. They rise slowly; I already see the first of them arriving. On his bewildered face, healf hidden by his hand, I read the melancholy of the common condition, and the despair of not being able to escape it. **And as for me, I pity without absolving. I understand without forgiving, and above all, I feel at last that I am being adored!** (143)


