Time is 8:14 pm. I'll happily probably get to sleep by 9.

brief note:
Still reading Atlas Shrugged and I still like it. Read somewhere that Ayn Rand only writes in a way that only if you believe in certain things from the beginning you can empathize. In Atlas Shrugged you can see this: "The words for it, and for this journey, and for her feeling, and for the whole of man's earth, were: it's so simple and so right!" I haven't read anything about Objectivism but I have the feeling that the fiction she writes keep better/ captures her emotional justification more accurately. It's the same way with the Futurist manifesto.

I'm going to dial down and try to focus on a single thing. Tomorrow I'm just going to think about moving forward the pollinator project at work. 

There are quite a few things to do, I got some administrative things done for Brown and submitted my first year seminar preferences. Still haven't looked into courses which is kind of self-sabotaging. It's ok though when i get off work in August I'll be able to give college my full attention.

I've been thinking that I haven't published or attempted to write any longform blog pieces. That's the inevitable tradeoff for moving to Obsidian -- but I think I can implement tags which make real blog posts larger and keep scraps & daily updates smaller. It will take a lot of time though. I want to try to approach these programming hacks in a more mature way: less tinkering and more full understanding. But the tradeoff is time, and I can't have gears-level models for everything.

I saw some cool internet privacy art where someone published live a full year of keylogging everything from their computer. That raises the question: where are daily updates on this spectrum? I'm filtering a lot of personal ? out of this format but its still very oral vs written, like a very long form tweet. Not like a blog post. Or a window into my mind ten minutes at a time. 

It is now 8:29 pm. There is a ton of things that I want to study and I haven't found the motivation. I am genuinely exhausted from my job but I think I can make it work. 

Things i wanted to look into over the summer but haven't been able to include multi (will do this at brown, vanity), lin alg (will do this at brown, vanity), vqgan + clip (can definitely do this stuff at brown), economics (can do this at brown), ethereum & game theory (passing interest), physics, urban design and ecology (just fun), linguistics & learning languages, various-ware things (I have a arduino wifi shield from a while back and a soldering iron), photogrammetry.

None of it is urgent, just things I want to do at some point and that I can definitely not pursue while I have a full-time job. When I say vanity I mean its something (currently) imposed by other people and not something that I need to do something right now. But there's good reason to take most of those things seriously before I finish college.

Conclusion: double down on the things I'm learning from my job, which are a lot on their own. And come back to the other things in August if you think you need to look into them before college. And for right now, go to sleep.


