---
date: '2026-02-28'
title: 'CS1380 M0 notes'
---


#### ssh onto EC2 instance

```
ssh -i keys/cs1380.pem ubuntu@13.60.46.147
```

**M4 instance ssh**

ssh -i keys/cs1380.pem ubuntu@13.48.147.46
ssh -i keys/cs1380.pem ubuntu@16.171.43.127
ssh -i keys/cs1380.pem ubuntu@16.170.225.63

run to install node and update apt (package manager)

On each node, install dependencies and github:
sudo apt update
curl -fsSL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_20.x | sudo bash -
sudo apt install -y nodejs
sudo apt install -y npm git vim shellcheck

Then run distribution.js via
 `node distribution.js --ip 0.0.0.0 --port 9001`
 

#### introduction slides

Tannenbaum: A distributed system is a collection of independent computers, which appear as a single coherent system.A datacenter, wearables,your car, your laptop...

Questions to consider:
- How are large-scale distributed systems built?
- How do they scale to billions of requests every day?
- What subsystems are involved in getting a page to the laptop?
- **How are these systems programmed and deployed?**
- How come these systems are always available?
- How can google download "the entire web", and answer queries in sub-second latency?
- **How can it possibly find the most relevant pages among 1.45 billion candidates**

Syllabus guide:
 **Fundamentals** :M1 to M3
- Of Nodes and Servers: [[node.js]]
- Communication & Serialization
- Time and the Ordering of Events
- Models of Distribution
- Scaleout
- Broadcast & Gossip

**High Scalability**: M4, M5
- Data Sharding and Partitioning
- Distributed Routing and Hashing
- Dstributed Processing + ESF
- DSLs for Distributed Computing
- Implementation and Internals of Distributed Processing

**Failures and Special Topics**: M6
- Eventual Consistency
- More Consistency
- Byzantine Fault Tolerance
- Microservices and Serverless
- Distributed Operating Systems

**Poster Session**
**Exam 2**: Thurs, April 23rd.


Query finds an inverted index:
- ordered first alphabetically, and then by page relevance.
- term | url | occurrences

The process for content is:

`cat "$1$ | c/process.sh | c.stem.js | c/combine.sh | c/invert.sh "$2" | c/merge.js d/global-index.txt | sort >d/global-index.txt`

Note invert takes in "$2"
Note merge takes in d/global-index.txt as argv[2] for global index.


Local index is formatted as :

- word | frequency | url
should read this by splitting via |, and then strip()


https://script.google.com/macros/s/AKfycbzDqoriWuwxLNVSv2zoj9l-qnN9gDMma1p7efXDhbmIUULT3BLg0vizs7m6-7YF1j0Lug/exec

is glo

npx jest non-distribution/t/m0.se.test.js -t "test-stem"

```
tr -C "[:alpha:]" "\n" 
| tr "[:upper:]" "[:lower:]" 
| iconv -t UTF-8 
| grep -vxf d/stopwords.txt $1
```


我本来想劝架，大家冷静一点儿，结果没有一个人讲理，最后我们都进了派出所。


```
1. Complete usage scenarios
A search engine has 3 components:
- crawler: for downloading web content, extracting links, downloading further content.
- indexer: processes content to extract key features, rank importance, restructure content to accelerate query answers.
- querier: receives queries, responds with most appropriate content.

Developing a non-distributed version with shell + Javascript code.
- Will deploy on cloud infra, test and characterize solution, reflect on the design.

create a new private remote, click on the + symbol

```
```YOUR_REPO=git@github.com:rkique/cs1380.git
git remote rename origin upstream
git remote add origin $YOUR_REPO
git push -u origin main
```

- Have pushed to private remote repo: "Default" remote repo

```
git add ./sth/sth, git commit
git rm ./sth/sth, git commit
git log 
git stash

git clone https://github.com/brown-cs1380/stencil && cd stencil
```

To set up the image with a shared directory:
```
docker run --name cs1380-dev -d -v $(pwd):/usr/src/app cs1380-environment
```


This is volume mount 
```
-v $(pwd):/usr/src/app
```

binding the directory within stencil. Changes within usr/src/app will stay inside, changes outside usr/src/app will go outside the local computer.

/stencil to /usr/src/app

The container has been created after defining it above.
docker start cs1380-dev / docker stop cs1380-dev.

Q: how does a search engine function? 
A: as a single loop. 
1. Read URL from seed URLs, download URL, extract further urls and content.
2. Analyze content, compute inverted indices, add to global index.

[See iPad Notes]

Crawl.sh and index.sh run components in non-distribution/c/
- e.g. getURLs.js, invert.sh
- crawl.sh downloads pages, index.sh gradually builds the inverted index.

All scripts will read and write to non-distribution/d/, stands for data
Tests for intermediate data streams are in non-distribution/t/
query.js: can query inverted index and return relevant pages.

Tests to characterize correctness and performance.
- Tiny web graph, small collection of books, large collection of book summaries, web of quotes
- Use the Linter and tests via npm test
- Implement at least one test in javascript for each component above.
(1) throughput: elements processed per time, (2) latency: time to process one element.

Deployment & Development: 
5a. setup an EC2 Instance on AWS.
5b. setup an EC2 Instance on the cloud.

Extra credit: 
- implement process.sh, combine.sh, invert.sh
- implement TF-IDF: score for a term based on 1. frequency in doc 2. num docs containing term.
	- appearance percentage * log(total/number)

Usage Scenarios
- Execute all tests
- Peruse source code
- add print statements
- add tests to query.js

T6, T7: characterize correctness, throughput across environments.

#### implementation notes

To run unit tests with jest, can specify string within test name:
`npx jest non-distribution/t/m0.se.test.js -t "test-stem"`

- getURLs.js and getText.js both extract from HTML streams and output to the console.
- 
1. The commands differ by platform, I looked them up. For cpu count and the memory, I used `sysctl`, and then for the disk size I used `df -H /`.

2. I explained the corpora I used in the `readme` file. I agree with you about the ambiguity on the throughput for the different subsystems, I don't understand how the arrays are meant to be used. I ended up just adding a dict with the different values {"crawl-ps": ..., "index-ps": ..., "query-ps": ...} in the array.

