---
date: '2026-03-18'
title: '1380 M5 Notes'
---
**Service Registration**
```
// Register a service
let n = 0;
let counterService = { count: () => { console.log(n++); } }
distribution.local.routes.put(counterService, 'counter');
```

Setup phase: create a set of dynamic and emphemeral service endpoints for this invocation of MapReduce. These are routes of the form `mr-id`, and have a single notify method which takes as a paramter an object. 

- One instance should execute on the coordinator node, and allows the coordinator to (1) receive notifications on how other nodes are progressing and (2) to fire up followup phases after completion.

Other services include `map` and `reduce` service instances on various nodes, including the coordinator. After creating these instances, we will need to fire up followup phases when a phase completes.

Allows processing large datasets in a distributed fashion. Uses two higher order functions: one which performs filtering and sorting, and another which performs summarization.

At the end of the milestone, should be able to 
- serialize distributed functions
- attach and run tasks in parallel
- manage communication and data transfers between the system.


##### Assumptions for distributed systems

At the cost of expressiveness and generality, these systems for development simplify the development of scalable distributed systems. See: [[Mapreduce paper]]

##### Datasets used

`ncdc` and `dlib` contain all data necessary for execution.
We define `m1` and `r1`. To use a mapreduce computation with `all.mr`, it will be

```
all.store.get(null, (e,v) => {
	all.mr.exec({keys: v, map: m1, reduce: r1}, console.log)
	});
```

Calling `exec` on the current node makes the node a `coordinator` orchestrating phases of the computation. There are key-object pair on the local system over which the map operation occurs. After notification of completions for all nodes, nodes move to the reduction phase.

**Example: m1 for a year-temperature mapping**
```
let m1 = (key, value) => {
  let words = value.split(/(\s+)/).filter((e) => e !== ' ');
  let out = {};
  out[words[1]] = words[3];
  return out;
}
```
Produces a number of objects of the shape `{1950: 0}, {1949: 111}`, etc.
Reduce works on values like `{1949: [111,78]}, {1950: [0,22,-11]}`. 

**r1 for the maximum temperature**
```
let r1 = (key, values) => {
  let out = {};
  out[key] = values.reduce((a, b) => Math.max(a, b), -Infinity);
  return out;
};
```

Functions behind the scenes. Output is processed between `map` and `reduce`. Sorting and grouping by key, and routing to appropriate `reduce` node. Shuffling achieved using consistent hashing to decide on proper node, grouping achieved through new append method to use in `shuffle` phase.

**T2: Scatter-Gather Orchestrator**
Create dynamic ephemeral service endpoints corresponding to the MapReduce invocation. These services correspond to routes of form `mr-<id>`, and include a single `notify` method which takes a parameter object.

Implement an orchestrator which registers `mr-<id>` service, sends message to group, and awaits a notify call to deregister.

> Map Phase. When setup completes, the coordinator sends a message to all the Mappers to initiate the Map phase of the computation. The service running on every node fetches the relevant objects from the local storage system, and passes each key and corresponding object to the map function. 

Results in the form of `{1950: 12}, ...`
> The node stores results locally, using appropriate local.store interfaces. When this phase is complete, the node notifies the coordinator. This phase should take about the same time for all nodes, assuming data is evenly distributed across nodes.

**T3: Multi-map and single-reduce phases**
Implement the map phase on all group nodes, implement reduce solely on the orchestrator. This will run reduction after collecting all results from all nodes on the orchestrator.

> Shuffle Phase. After the coordinator receives notifications that all nodes have completed their mapping phase, it proceeds to ask nodes to move to shuffling. Nodes use hashing to send each key-value pair resulting from the map computation to the node responsible for collecting that result:
> 	all values for the same key end up together n one list.

`reduce(1950, [1,1,1]) -> (1950, 3)`

> 	sent to the correct reducer.

>  Note that the subsequent reduce phase expects all objects that correspond to the same key to be on the same node. This phase may additionally leverage node-local compaction optimizations.

When the computation completes, the shuffle and reduce phases should be implemented on the service.

##### Scenarios: MR Workflows

- Maximum temperature
- Word frequency
- Crawler
- URL extraction

[[Scenario where we put dataset and send dataset]]

