---
date: '2026-03-15'
title: '1380 3-10-2026 Mapreduce'
---
[[Spark, Resilient Distributed Datasets]]

For March 10th notes on Distributed Processing

So far, the class has had a focus on **state**:
- communication of state.
- Local data for nodes, including membership info, task progress
- RPC exposes methods for asking about state
- Partition state
	- e.g. each node has a key which is mapped to by a hash.
	- Requests need to be sent to a relevant node, use `utils.hash(key_id)` for communicating global state across machines.

Light emphasis on **processing**:
- serialize functions, create RPCs, concurrent actors.

Abstractions, implementations/internals for scalable distributed processing. **Q**: How to process in a distributed fashion, in an efficient and dev-friendly way?

##### Key Idea for parallel processing

- Might or might not involve splitting and merging partial data.
Apply the same function across different chunks of a dataset.
E.g.
- download web pages
- search for a pattern across pages
- count occurrences across dataset.

> **Example: Apache Kafka**
> Kafka provides three main functions to its users:
> 	Publish and subscribe to streams of records
	  Effectively store streams of records in the order in which records were generated
	  Process streams of records in real time

Process in data-parallel & task-parallel execution.
Stateless computations are known as "embarrassingly" parallel, because they can operate easily with discrete chunks of an input dataset.

*MapReduce* is considered an extremely restricted programming system / language.

##### The MapReduce Model
Programmers get a simple API with `map` and `reduce`. Enables processing of massive amounts of data on thousands of nodes, with little effort.

`map`: arr.map(f) applies f to all values in arr.
```
[1,2,3,4].map(num => num * 2);
```

**Potential Side Effects**:
- Modifying global variables
- IO operations, external system interaction
- UI, exceptions etc.

`reduce`: arr.reduce(f, a): apply f to the next value in arr and the previous result of f. 

```
[1,2,3,4].reduce((sum, v) => sum + v, 0);
```

Properties of these: they minimize side-effects or dependencies on state, because they are both concrete transformations. Isn't the output shape of reduce not very well defined.

`Map: (input key, large input value) -> Collection (intermediate key, intermediate value)`
For a document such as "after one epoch the clock reset"...:
('epoch', 1)
For map, the user function is called for each input key, value. 

==System then groups intermediate values by their intermediate key, and passes them to Reduce.==

`Reduce: (intermediate key, set of intermediate values) -> results`
('epoch', [1,1,1,1,1]) -> ('epoch', 5)


##### The MapReduce Implementation

> Example: **Distributed `wc` count occurrences in a collection.

Map
- input: document ID, document content.
- output each word and a count
- Initially, just emit (word, 1)
Reduce:
- Input: (word, all counts from all documents)
- Tally counts of each key (word)
- Output (word, sum(counts))

> Example 2: **Distributed grep: emit lines of text matching a pattern, e.g. `1380` across all documents.**

Map:
- Input: (docID, doc)
- Output: lines matching pattern.
Reduce
- Input: ("", [lines]). Just copy the lines to the output.
- Output: [lines].

> Example 3: **Count all accesses per URL across all log files** 

Map:
	input: (logID, log)
	output: (url, 1) (url2, 1), (url3, 1)...
	(Do not care about the logID)

Reduce: (
	input: [(url, 1) (url, 1), ...]
	- Or? url: [1,1,1,1 ...]
- reduce((tuple, v) -> (tuple[0], tuple[1] += 1))
	- OR simply, reduce((sum, v) => sum + v, 0))
- (url, count)

> Example 4: **Reverse web-link graph: Find all pages pointing to a page for all pages, e.g. `/schedule`**

Map:
Input: URL, html file
For each link on the page, generate a (target, source) pair.
Output: (target_page, URL)

Reducer:
Input: target, [sources]
Concatenate the list of source URLs associated with a target.
Output: (target_page, aggregate docIDs)

> Example 5: Inverted Index - map from terms to docIDs.

Map:
	Input: (docID, doc)
	Output: a list of (term, docIDs)
Shuffle/Merge aggregates across terms.

Reduce:
	Input: (term, list[docIDs])
	Output: (term, list[docIDs])

Need to apply consistent hashing twice: once among the `M` mappers and once among the `R` reducers.

##### Implementation details

**Primary coordinator node**
- Initializes array and splits it according to # of workers
- Sends each worker the subarray
- Receives results form each worker.

**Secondary worker node**
- Receives subarray from primary
- Performs processing
- Sends results to primary/coordinator

Fault Tolerance: use gossip to check on each worker periodically.
If no response received in a certain time, mark as failed.
Tasks are reset and rescheduled. For mappers, can reuse. For reducers, may need to keep track of the portion of the data being mapped.

==Our Interface for MapReduce==
- One way to generate keys is via `[gid].store.get` with a null property, `browncs.store.get(null,...)`
- This extends the get to provide a full list of keys available to the store (e.g. `doc1, doc2, doc3`)

##### Additional Dist. Processing Lecture 14

Dataflow model, is a model for a distributed system.
- Directed graph of data, with operations as vertices.
- Communication channels form the edges.
- 
