---
date: '2026-02-28'
title: 'M4 1380 notes'
---
reconf method. Allows reconfiguring the service instance when a group change is detected. Takes as an argument the object representing previous state. Goes through list of object keys available:
- uses `get` with `null` key to do so.
Identifies all the nodes which should be relocated, using a hash function for all object IDs, using old group and new group. The objects for which results are not identical need to be relocated. 
- Note is no objects come from failed node, nodes already are identified in sequence.
- For each key of objects to be relocated, uses sequence of `get` and `del` on source, and a `put` on the destination node. It's necessary to implement this difference in hashes.
- Instead of fetching all objects immediately





develop a client for issuing a series of requests.
- latency and throughput of object insertion and retrieval
1. generate 1000 key-value pairs
2. insert objects to disributed kv store
3. query all objects (by key)

- use a hashing technique to decide which node stores an object based on primary key. issue `local.comm.send` to invoke corresponding `mem` or `store` for that node. For instance, we have
- `all.store.put({first: "Josh", last: "Carb"}, "jcarb", console.log);`
- should convert primary key to a key identifier
For any input data, creates a 32-byte hexadecimal signature.
NIDs, KIDs drawn from same identifier space. 

Should allow specification of hash in context
```
let store = (config) => {
context.gid = config.gid || "all";
context.hash = config.hash || utils.naiveHash;
return {get: ..., put: ..., del: ..., reconf: ...};
}
```

Key-value storage: 
- in-memory
- on-disk

Need to implement a `mem` dictionary
- Mapping disappears after node shutdown
- Create a JS object to keep track of keys and values
- (string | null) => object
	- `null` should always return all keys in the store
	
When a node is removed from a group or a new node is added to the group, the hash should reapply.

Hashing `store`
- Rendezvous: mapping persists across node execution
- Consistent: utilize file system to store key-value mappings
- reconv: will shuffle the item store to accomodate changing group composition. Node `1,2,3`: Reconv will allow the object to be redistributed `1`.

`util/id`
- Accommodate new nodes, dying nodes
- Hashing algorithms should be here.

We are dividing data into partitions over the dimensions of a key property. This partitioning scheme depends only on a single property, so that the rest of the object does not need to be known or remain fixed.

**mem**
*get, put* operations are idempotent
*del* operation will return an error if cannot find an operation
*put* will update the corresponding value to the new value

***store***
uses `fs` module for storage.

```
local.store.put(user, "jcarb", (e, v) => {
  local.store.get("jcarb", (e, v) => {
    local.store.del("jcarb", console.log)
  });
});
```

Implement hash functions as pure functions
`utils.naiveHash = (kid, nids) => {nids.sort(); nids[utils.idToNum(kid) % nids.length] }`

Get requests can be for nodes across groups:

```
browncs.mem.get("jcarb",(e, v) => {});

all.mem.get("jcarb",(e, v) => {});
```

should be able to distinguish between objects inserted using put methods. Service instances corresponding to different groups need to be resolve the keys even if they are identical.

Should print an error:
```
all.mem.put(user, "jcarb", (e, v) => {
  browncs.mem.get("jcarb", console.log); // prints an error
});
```

###### consistent hashing
Pick the element right after the one corresponding to KID. 

###### rendez-vous hashing
create a new list by concatenating NID with KID. hash and convert to numerical representation. Pick the highest such value. 