---
date: '2026-03-01'
title: '3-1-2026 RIP notes'
---
Update rules for router $R$, update $\langle D, c_D \rangle$ from neighbor N at cost $C_N$. 
Then, we know that $R$ can *also* reach D via $N$ with cost
$$c = c_D + c_N$$
This is a version of Bellman Ford. 
To update the table:
- if $D$ not in table, add $\langle D, c, N \rangle$. 
- If table has entry $\langle D, c_{old}, M \rangle$ (an existing path to destination)
	- if $c < c_{old}$: update table to $<D, c, M>$ (lower cost)
	- if $c > c_{old}$ and M == N: update table to $<D, N/M, c>$
	- if $c > c_{old}$ and M != N, ignore
	- if $c == c_{old}$ and M == N: no change, just refresh timeout.


Should register a handler function which can be called when a valid packet of a certain type is received.

- Should be able to handle (A) test protocol, (B) Routing Information Protocol. 

https://github.com/brown-cs1680-s26/ip-p

RIP packet structure

uint16 command: either 1 for request, 2 for response.
uint16 num_entries
struct {
    uint32 cost     // Integer value of cost
    uint32 address  // Byte representation of the IP address
    uint32 mask     // Byte representation of the subnet mask 
} entries[num_entries] 

implement a method to send a RIP request via the use of SendIP. 


util/vnet_run linear-r1h2

Command is 2-bit address at the start of the struct.
Num_entries is 0 for request command, can go to 64.
address and mask are network address & subnet mask for IP prefix.
All fields sent on wire in network byte order.

This time, we send then with RIPPacketHandler.
Neighbors listed using one or more rip advertise-to directives in the lnx file. 

*Protocol Operation*
When a router comes online, it should read advertise-to instructions and advertise themselves to those ports. It should also send RIP response to any RIP request, just as with periodic updates. For instance we need to advertise to 10.1.0.2 from r1 in r2h2. When a RIP request is received, it should send RIP response with routes in routing table. 

RIP responses are sent in the following cases:
1. Responding to RIP request
2. Periodic update (5 seconds)
3. Triggered Update (sent whenever routing table changes).

Should use split.horizon: no new routing information to routers from which information is received.

Route timeouts
A routing entry learned from neighbor router should expire if it has not been refreshed in 12 seconds.

Define an 
When a route expires, your router should:
- Set the route’s cost to infinity (16)
- Send a triggered update
- Remove the route from the routing table
- Overall, once your node expires a route, it should be able to update its table when a new, better route arrives.


