---
date: "2024-08-07"
displayDate: "8.7.2024"
---

(8.7.2024) I "need" (P3) to make a list of things to do in COS for next year's REU students. This
                        is my note so I don't forget

(8.7.2024)</p>d
                    [Spoilers] Hunger (2023) is centered around two characters: one is Auy, a young female cook who runs
                    her family noodle shop. The other is the European-looking Chef Paul and his famous catering service
                    known as "Hunger". It is set in contemporary Thailand. Many of the comments made reflect the
                    aspirations and fears of young adults there and elsewhere: Auy's stability in running the family
                    business against the inability to pursue into any other career, nepotism at large firms denying
                    promotions, the insubstantial nature of wealth as it is created virtually, through online content
                    creation or cryptocurrency empires. <br><br>
                    This film goes beyond the flagrantly satirical elements of "The Menu" to provide a much more human
                    look at the relationship between a chef and his clients. It might not be more realistic, but it
                    resonated with me on more levels. It raised questions about what a dream is, how hard it is to hold
                    fulfillment and desire at once, and how happiness viewed from this perspective is empty: how
                    "wish-fulfillment" is necessarily an outside diagnosis and not a true description. This made me
                    think more about what has been called my "obsession with technology". I've felt that my desire has
                    been to find perspectives which are the most true to form, but this is very easily the most
                    *intuitive* perspective instead of the most *true*. The difference between a sport and a game how
                    strong something is at its core: the delineations of a sport provides a stable foundation for
                    strategy whereas a game is built around and between those strategies. I'm not going to think too
                    much about this anymore but something something incremental developments enable gamification true
                    technology is a leveler. <br><br>
                    Anyways. In the final catering scene, Chef Paul and Auy are brought together to compete on three
                    intersecting areas of culinary skill, authenticity, and self-image: Auy crafts a narrative, not
                    around her as a woman breaking barriers in a male-dominated industry but around familial love and
                    understanding through food. Chef Paul then brutalizes this narrative by serving hundreds of
                    identical bowls of hot water, and giving a one and a half sentence speech on "common humanity". The
                    crowd flocks from one to the next, unable to distinguish heartfelt messages from cynically delivered
                    platitudes. <br><br>
                    The final words of Tone to Auy ("Isn't *this*$^1$ what *you*$^2$ hungered for?") could be
                    interpreted as a very traditional kind of mockery$^1$, very cynical and self-defeating. But Tone has
                    been a supporter of Auy throughout the film: he wants her to succeed and believes that she wants to.
                    That tinges the scene with the sadness of misunderstanding$^2$. If Tos provides Auy the ability to
                    become a viral sensation, Tone provides Auy with the ability to differentiate sensation from
                    reality, a baseline which forces her to reevaluate her priorities. She realizes that Chef Paul
                    cannot possibly be serving his clients out of love: they will always be the objects of affection,
                    capable of endless absorption of love, time, and skill, and polite (monetary) reciprocation. Instead
                    of continuing to work towards understanding, she chooses to return to her family business. <br><br>
                    The pace of the ending music is unsettling, and it does not indicate a traditional happy ending as
                    many believe. Nothing has been resolved: popularity and tradition are still at odds. She cannot cook
                    for her community without drawing attention, attention which will change her and her clientele. Aun
                    knows this, and believes even her efforts to restore her family kitchen will inevitably involve
                    compromise and division.
