---
date: "2024-12-11"
displayDate: "12.11.2024"
---

(12.11.2024) I have a lot of creative work from this semester, although as usual much of it is not what I
                expected it to be. Overall my favorite classes were Information Theory in Language and Narrative
                Nonfiction. Here is a list:
            <ul>
                <li>There is something strange going on with model surprisal and reading times, that is to say a <a
                        href="https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0749596X24000135"> missing link </a>.
                    Basically everything I'm putting into my Information Theory in Language paper relates to this in
                    some way:
                    <blockquote style="font-size: 10px"><i>ˀ
                            Consider the garden path sentence, "the new doctor offered the operation appeared
                            increasingly likely to succeed in her career". The selectional constraints which "offered"
                            poses on the new doctor, as opposed to the operation, is the primary driver of ambiguity in
                            the sentence: the typicality of the verb with the doctor as subject, as opposed to the
                            operation as object. The respective main and reduced clause frames could be formulated as
                            standalone sentences, and then compared by both humans and language models: for instance,
                            reading times could be measured and surprisal could be calculated for "the new doctor
                            offered the experiment to patients" and "the new doctor offered the experiment succeeded in
                            his career". Then, these ratios could be compared: if there exists high variability of the
                            ratio across different examples sharing a syntactic structure, e.g. the Main Verb/Reduced
                            Relative, it is evidence that reading times are affected by the selectional constraints of
                            the verb, irrespective of the underlying syntactic structure.
                        </i></blockquote>
                </li>
                <li>I did develop a context visualization app for language model feature descriptions, which has a lot
                    of room for improvement</li><br>
                <li>I wanted to develop a node editor for OverpassQL queries that I haven't gotten around to</li> <br>
                <li>Made some posters, not much art though. Closest would be the inktober sketches below</li><br>
                <li>Made a poster for the semester's <a href="images/Curry'd Function.png"> Curry'd Function</a></li>
                <li>
                    Around 5,000 words of somewhat fantastical narrative nonfiction pitches, some of those I will put
                    here when I clean them up (?)
                </li>
                <li>Idea. do syntactic templates reveal linearly approximable contexts? This would basically be a
                    followup from my summer research, between <a href="https://lre.baulab.info/">this paper </a> and <a
                        href="https://arxiv.org/pdf/2407.00211"> this one</a> </li>
            </ul>
            This semester was probably the first one in which I have set hard word limits for myself, and found my
            writing enriched by it.

            <br> <br>
