---
date: '2024-05-01'
---
I want to take a serious writing class in college. My writing has regressed to frantic little
                        notes to myself on my computer and regurgitated logic and ideas for two of my classes. I am
                        proud of my reading lately, been finding some really great books and articles. And I am proud of
                        several projects from this semester and last, some of which I will try to post here.
                        <br><br>
                        You can tell a lot about someone from the examples they give.
                        <br><br>
                        There are certainly words that I overuse but only in a broadly descriptive manner. Again, no
                        intentional cameoflage.
                        <br><br>
                        You really see things differently when you draw them. And why does that matter? Because
                        <b>you</b> are on top of the information food chain.
                        <br><br>
                        Keep trying to challenge yourself.
                        <br><br>
                        I lack patience but make up for it with <del>fantastical daydreams of empty formless
                            worlds</del> analogical reasoning.
                        <br><br>
                        Locked in a never-ending catacomb of hallways and shuttered classrooms, able to catch the sky
                        from the corners of your eye. Becoming acutely attuned to the presence of food. I could sit and
                        watch the ceiling of BioMed for an entire day.
                        <br><br>
                        "You really like suspense". I really like it. I love forcing sensations on my readers. Haha.
                        <br> <br>
                        <del>The more something I make relates to my own self, the less I like it.</del> The more
                        something is unintelligible within my own idiolect, the, less I like it. Which doesn't keep me
                        from feeling a sense of identification, so maybe it's all about ownership (for brief periods of
                        time). But we are all on a timeshare.
                        <br><br>
                        The stakes of language are as high as you want them to be.
                        <br> <br>
                        For the longest time I thought my artwork wouldn't survive without a caption, because the
                        context mattered so much. I think that speaks to my fear of losing the complete attention of
                        strangers.
                        <br> <br>
                        So much of college comes down to reading (better) and writing (better). Again, really hard to
                        say what that means exactly.
                        <br><br>
                        The way words are distributed is really interesting. I've got this notion in my head that
                        they've replaced people except in the settings where people really care about conversations,
                        which may make talking a lot less interesting. Words are a proof something was done, and at the
                        highest level we care a lot about sending those signals. But there's a difference between
                        billboards and toothpaste labels because the billboards are actually meant for reading, whereas
                        toothpaste are more forced compliance. <br> <br>
                        This is no place for moralizing! <br><br>
                        Yeah, I still think there's a right way to live. <br><br>

                        So much is being done <del>to</del> for me every day.<br> <br>
