---
date: '2025-11-02'
---
<br><br>
                <b>I Hold The Net for Popping Bubbles</b> <br><br>
                Your honor, I would like to report my urgency is justified. The daylight bears an impenetrable
                thickness, the shadows cast themselves upon edges. While verification must always slip from the back of
                my mind, it is undeniable that on bright blueish days I am compelled to cast a net of rope all over the
                encompassing soap bubble, wider and taller than I know to name. On exhalation, I witness it: the film,
                undulating at my lips. The cars leave barely perceptible traces when they pass through it, their speed
                disrupting the enveloping barrier. When I walk around my hands and feet are compromised. <br><br>

                I dream of cinching the braided strands around the trees, above the buildings, around the globe. I will
                burst the iridescent gleam. Yes, I will regret my ridiculous impropriety. I will regret them at future
                time. When the wet glistening threads fall to the grass, when the auras cast by street signs and pebbles
                truly go, will I agree that a terrible mistake, a grave mistake, has been committed. But as long as
                these compulsions come, the less important anything else could be.<br><br>

                I'll stay in hotels, wear my silly suit, grovel and pander in shabby service so that I hold dear to
                myself that ticket I've always clutched. That ticket is my birth certificate, a proof of life, sometimes
                a ruinous sad stub. Sometimes decorated with colored pencils and chalk. Sometimes painted and sometimes
                said. Sometimes I folded it into geometric shapes, in high school more than a thousand origami lions. It
                doesn't matter how many words you put down but how many you pick up. How many you leave and how many you
                leave to be seen.

            </p>
            <code style="font-size: 9px">
Conceptually, it's all quite clear to me.
The white lights streak and the yellow ones die.
On my birthday, no one inhabited my special type. 
Everyone loved to speak of the places they saw
the roads changing from asphalt to dirt. The places which
bear the affect of contrived opposition, subtle cross-linkages
when everything's gone all wrong. On the news they will argue 
about paradise. You couldn't stay but wished me best of luck.
<br><br>
You want me to lie to you, in stranger ways than I know.
But I can only tell you true things, unburdened as I am by the flow
or crush of time and desire. I could list everything that I have learned
or I could simply point at things, draw them lying atop one another.<br><br>
                </code>
