---
date: "2025-09-26"
displayDate: "9.26.2025"
---

(9.26.2025)<br><br>
                From the top of the Churchill house you can see four florescent domes like mushroom caps, when you look
                left. If you look right you are struck instead by a great incongruity. Here lies the grey brick and
                stone crosses and windows of the BioMed building. The wings and foyers are subdued, tastefully lit,
                while as they rise upwards the sophistication gives way to a hint of a brutal industrial scale. The
                fifth, sixth, seventh floors: dark brick and pale rectangles, set against the windows full of piercing
                light. They are just barely the scale at which you are both disappointed at your own vantage point, and
                impressed by their remoteness.
                <br><br>
                Let's talk about something else. Let's talk about color. I saw a chart once which looked at the
                declining rates of cars which were any shade but white and black. From the thirties up to the 90s
                there's a steady increase in yellows, reds, greens, blues: then at the turn of the millenium its like
                those graphs of anthropogenic extinction. Once, we lived in a time full of colors, birds, and insects. I
                am nearly certain of this. From my tasteful metal chair (a musical skeleton absent vibrational
                capabilities) sitting atop a tasteful concrete block, all the cars I see are blacks and greys.
                <br><br>
                Black exudes power, but it loses something too. It loses the definition of color through which it must
                be perceived. What can be described only in shades, created and recreated until we are willing to let it
                go? These are, for the most part formal questions. As Berger says, art is not about life, but creation.
                Perhaps it is also our best attempts to transform the instantaneous into the permanent. If you live
                indefinitely in the present moment, then the existence of artistic objects are astonishing. As far as I
                have figured out, nobody has figured out another way to live.
