---
date: '2025-06-29'
---
<i>Jeremy Bernstein, The Merely Very Good</i>
                <br><br>
                "After the lecture one of the students asked Eliot what he thought the most beautiful line in the
                English language was, an insane question, really, like asking for the largest number. Much to my
                amazement Eliot asnwered without the slightest hesitation "But look, the morn in russet mantle clad,
                Walks o'er the dew of yon high eastward hill".

Sleep that knits up the raveled sleeve of care (sleep that travels up the raveled sleeve of
                care) -- Macbeth qtd. J.M.Coetzee,<i>What is Realism </i>

Q: When is good not good enough? A: When you are faced with the task of bringing something to life.

It is only in the durational mode that we can grasp that noncontingent relation to experience, the
                perception that used to be called "under the aspect of eternity" -- the seeing of life in a way that
                acknowledges as its foundation the mystery of the <i> fact </i> of existence.

The artist is a threat because of the effect of art, no matter what its ostensible subject might be, is
                to alter the relation to experience, to affect a change of state -- and the main point of the new
                relation is not to clarify concrete matters in the <i>here and now</i> but to propose an understanding
                that transcends the here and now.

The constant deferral of significance is the operative principle of most lives... we greet the world
                outside our immediate sphere of concern as a chaos essentially beyond our grasp (I strongly disagree
                with this but its a striking image), as an event the meaning of which will be disclosed to us later,
                <i>if ever</i>. Everything in the novel points to meaning... it smelts contigency and returns it as
                meaning. (The NOVEL is A FOUNTAIN of PASSIVE MEANING) The now time is not the same thing as flow.
