---
date: '2025-09-05'
---
Let's try some more freeform. <br><br>
                Draft Re: <i>Some Notes on Song</i><br><br>
                Today as I was out running a car honked as I ran on the sidewalk, along some cluster of townhome
                driveways. It was at the end of Reservoir, a very long and wide road heading south from Providence. I
                kept running, but out of instinct I glanced left, and saw a tall white man and woman driving into the
                space I had been a few seconds prior. I thought to myself, I had probably been mistaken. The honk had
                not been a welcome or greeting, but a form of recognition. The gesture had not been about me, but about
                themselves: announcing their own presence on the road at a distance dangerously close to my own.
                <br><br>
                But the fact remains that over the years people have responded to movement through an artificial,
                self-sustained shout of their own. When they occur spontaneously as a result of my own activity, the
                supportive honks are some of the strongest and delightful noises I have had the pleasure of playing a
                role in creating. It's peculiar how the road and the climate in which a honk registers, especially on
                the prolonged periods of contact during incoming traffic may use such signals, create a series of points
                in time in which the use of the horn is intensified. In the back of my mind for almost every car which
                goes by some social registry of the passerby exists, and the prospect of being noticed delights and
                scares me. I imagine myself as a thin piece of wire waiting to get struck by lightning. <br><br>
                The kinds of communication are so varied. When I watch others, I can almost never do it right on my own.
                On some days, its a short double tap honk, on another multiple triples which emulate the sirens of a
                boxing ring or soccer game. The intensity of the honk matters too, whether it is a slow, drawn out, and
                persistent, or a drum tap followed by a sonorous melodic sound. A final patter that redshifts before it
                fades away.<br><br>
                In some cases it's not a honk, they are words of praise, words which are never remembered the way they
                were said but in attitudes they stay. By the King County Metropolitan Airport, in the loose gravel banks
                of a six-lane freeway, I witnessed a motorcyclist in full regalia watch my own eyes as I ran in his
                direction, and ensuring I was watching him watch me, throttle his engine and shift his fingers into
                'hang loose' signs. The attempts at leveling with me. The attempts at gifting me respect. The attempts
                at speaking up, or the smiles which creep over those who do not know why but revel in the thought that
                someone is doing it.<br> What thoughts go through the heads of those who watch the runners up and down
                the city roads? I tell myself I will never judge them by their speeds. I tell myself I will judge them
                by their bravery, but I end up trying to understand them by their self-absorption. The number of
                feathers they envision themselves to be shedding. How much they commit towards forcing themselves to
                understand fully that this is the world, and that this is all there is.
