---
date: "2026-03-08"
displayDate: "3.8.2026"
---

(3.8.2026) Jeanette Winterson, <i>Art Objects</i>: <br><br>
                If I am a writer, I will have to be careful, I must not fall into the trap of believing my passion, of itself, is art. As a composer or as a painter I know that it is not. I know that I shall have to find a <i>translation of form</i> to make myself clear. I know that the language of my passion and the the language of my art are not the same thing.

(3.8.2026) Harry S. Truman, <i>Special Message to the Congress on the Famine in India</i>: <br><br>
                I recognize that there are important political differences between our Government and the Government of India with regard to the course of action which would most effectively curb aggression and establish peace in Asia. However, these differences should not blind us to the needs of the Indian people. These differences must not deflect us from our tradition of friendly aid to alleviate human suffering.<br><br>
                It is not our objective in foreign affairs to dominate other nations. Our objective is to strengthen the free nations through cooperation-free and voluntary cooperation based on a common devotion to freedom. Our actions have demonstrated our adherence to this objective throughout the world. It is natural that the Indian people should turn to us for aid in meeting the threat of famine that now confronts them. We should meet their appeal in the spirit which guides our relations with all free nations.
