> I am an extremely passionate person and have a very intense and profound experience of life.  I was quite physically strong and capable.  I do not think the life of the mind is complete- adventure was essential to my happiness.  Nutrition and physical activity seem to me necessary underpinnings of full life.  Efficiency is extremely important to me and I took a great deal of pride in the facility with which I was able to manage my life on an everyday basis.  My goal was to make myself the most complete, beautiful, inspiring, wonderful human being possible.  I paid constant attention to the task and it often felt like a very solitary one.  I wanted my experience of life to be broad, expansive, profound, and full of triumph.  I notice I am speaking in the past tense but I won’t go back and correct it.  I’ve had that tendency for some time now, and it is because for me, paraplegia and life itself are not compatible.  This is not life, it is something else.  Lofty words and tales of great deeds fire my spirit.  I fantasize about great power and influence.  I want to be splendid and magnificent.  I want to run and jump and fight and laugh and live the most free-spirited, joyous life imaginable.  To go all over the world, to the most obscure jungles and landscapes, to work in great cities, to go this way and that.  I want to make my person and my life into absolute wonders, spectacular and breathtaking works of art.  It was my time to shine.


> If you are locked in a cage, screaming, raging to get out, what does it matter to you if you look over and see ten-thousand others caged right alongside you, placidly absorbed in this or that activity?  What has that to do with you?  Does it help you to think that you might someday be like them, happy in their cages?  A clam is comfortable in its shell and thinks all of the other animals should envy it.  A clam does not see why an eagle would rather die than be a clam.

> I feel _enormous_ inside.  The tremendous desire and longing I feel inside of me span oceans.  I am absolutely and heartbreakingly _in love_ with life.  But this is not life.