[[Systems]]
[[House Apportionment]]

Eric Xia
Kresser/Souser
Mathematics of Democracy
7 December 2020
Electoral Systems Position Paper

The United States should keep the electoral college because the disadvantages of alternative systems outweigh their advantages. Under the two party system, the advantages of proportional representation, congressional districting, and the popular vote do not outweigh their respective advantages.

First, consider the current system. The current Electoral College is arguably the system which has the greatest legitimacy by the constitution. It also has some practical benefits -- through the electoral vote apportionment process, states with lower populations are better protected, and victories occur by clear margins. It's worth noting that the Banzhaf index of states is well correlated to the actual number of electoral votes they have, with the exception of California being slightly overrepresented (Silver).

When considering alternatives to the Electoral College, the essential question we should ask is: would moving from the electoral college to this system retain or disrupt the two-party system?  If it does not disrupt the current two-party system, then in a practical sense it is a partisan action. Duverger's law says that simple-majority plurality prevents multi-partism at the national level (Oxford), but I believe that in reality, proportional representation and other proposed solutions do not work. This is due to the fact that the presidency is only a single seat. No alternative electoral system is likely to disrupt the two-party race for the presidency, and so it will not make any functional changes to the race. 

Consequently, every electoral system which does not make functional changes can only be evaluated on its "fairness" in distribution of voting power. Each of these alternatives, like the Electoral College, make tradeoffs of diversity and popular representation, and none of these tradeoffs are sufficiently optimal as to require a constitutional amendment.

On the extreme of our balance between diversity and popular representation is the popular vote, in which all votes count equally. This is, in some senses, most defensibly the "will of the people", and any argument against such a system must disagree with its fundamental axioms. The greatest disadvantage of this system would be presidents appeal indiscriminately to the population. This would allow for the influence of demagogues -- as the Anti-Federalist Papers warned against. But it would also be radically unrepresentative of low population states and fringe-yet-essential states and industries, such as oil drilling in North Dakota and fishing in Alaska. Under the two-party system, these disadvantages and the fundamental ambiguity between diversity and proportionality outweigh its intuitive benefits.

If you concede that popular representation is not quite the will of the people, instead looking towards diversity as a quality of the will of the people, we must tackle a near-intractable mathematical concept. We can try to quantify such diversity better through Rényi entropy, but pragmatically, we will have to settle for a solution within the federal structure which ensures some fairness of social/geographical distribution. Out of the mainstream alternative methods, the method which respects diversity most is the proportional popular system. Due to the breakpoints in this system, many states are competitive for singular electoral votes. This allows for a wide range of swing states, and a diversity of representation across the geographical United States. However, two factors make this system unappealing. Firstly, there are razor thin margins in many cases, which would often force presidencies to the house, which as a tiebreaker is a gross distortion of the popular vote. Furthermore, the “distance” from a breakpoint is arbitrary state-to-state, influenced by the number of electoral votes a state has and by its political margin. Because of these disadvantages and the ambiguity between diversity and proportionality, the advantages of this system are not worth the substantial investment of time. 

Another method that makes an attempt to preserve diversity is the Congressional Districting system. This is appealing due to its geographic diversity and legibility, as a top-down hierarchical model that preserves federalism. In this model, electors are bound geographically as representatives to certain regions. Although this representation would be fairly weak, breaking the population into discrete and well-structured regions has undeniable appeal. However, although this model nominally preserves diversity in prioritizing equal district representation, in practice it would have swing districts, which concentrate voting into even smaller geographic regions than proportional representation would do. In practice then, this system would be functionally similar to the current system. Because of these disadvantages and the fact that this system is less representative than the Electoral College, the advantages of this system are not worth the substantial investment of time and the constitutional amendment.

In conclusion, the United States should keep their current system because the disadvantages of alternative systems outweigh their advantages. Proportional representation, congressional districting, and the popular vote would not change the mechanics of voting significantly, and would only strike a different balance between respecting diversity and proportionality.

Works Cited
https://www.oxfordreference.com/view/10.1093/oi/authority.20110803095737871http://www.stat.columbia.edu/~gelman/research/published/probdecisive2.pdf