[[@To the Lighthouse, Virginia Woolf]]
[[Unique Forms of Continuity in Space]]
**

The form and style of Virginia Woolf’s To the Lighthouse and Umberto Boccioni’s Unique Forms of Continuity in Space exhibit similarities in their spatial form and in their rejection of mainstream analytical movements, but ultimately differ greatly in their portrayal of human life.

Both embody Joseph Frank's spatial form. To The Lighthouse is an elegy to Ms. Ramsey. The difference between an elegy and the more conventional narrative is the non-chronological form: To The lighthouse is split into three parts, the first about Mrs. Ramsey, the second her death, the third the ressurection through memory and honoring of Mrs. Ramsey. She lives on mythologically in the memories of Lily and the Ramseys: “They would, she thought, going on again, however long they lived, come back to this night; this moon; this wind; this house: and to her too.” (79) Another example of this is Cam's unconscious reverie on the boat that echos Mrs. Ramsey's story: "It was a hanging garden; it was a valley, full of birds, and flowers, and antelopes..." (204). The reoccurrence of Mrs. Ramsey throughout the novel makes her timeless. The book is not a narrative arc but a single cohesive image, one which portrays eternal ideas in mythic contrast: Mrs. Ramsey's delicious fecundity" (26), a "fountain and spray of life"

Unique Forms of Continuity in Space also embodies spatial form. In Joseph Frank's original essay on Spatial Form in Modern Literature, he refers to “literature and the plastic arts'' as having essentially the same limits of representation, where the plastic arts refers to moldeable forms such as sculpture. Yet sculpture was looked down by serious artists -- Boccioni was one of the only to embrace this seemingly outdated medium, and try to make it new. His sculpture, an abstraction of a human in motion, modeled by the Futurist sculptor Umberto Boccioni, realizes the potential for spatial form in sculpture. In Unique Forms, we see curves and spirals that imply a human in motion, an organic shape which is tensed in motion. The Futurists were obssessed with velocity, brought by the racing car, railway stations, steamships. And this velocity, as Boccioni attempts to depict it, is a superimposition of many frames of motion at once is a mythic simulatiety. It is the suggestion of movement in static form. Unique Forms of Continuity in Space and To the Lighthouse both exhibit spatial form, an innovative reimagining of their respective mediums.

TTL and UFCS both acknowledge and reject the analytical modes of thinking popular at their time. In To the Lighthouse, this is evident in Woolf’s critiques of analytical philosophy, such as the table from Bertrand Russell’s expositions on the nature of reality: “reducing of lovely evenings, with all their flamingo clouds and blue and silver to a white deal four-legged table”. It is also apparent in the metaphors used by Woolf, portraying male characters as solipsistic, resolute, naive-in-cynicism seekers of truth: as a doomed expedition captain, as a jaded medieval knight, Throughout To the Lighthouse, Woolf favors the self-aware subjectivity of Lily and Mrs. Ramsey over the objectivity of Charles Tansley, William Bankes, and Mr. Ramsey. 

In Unique Forms of Continuity in Space, Umberto rejects rationality by choosing the long-neglected medium of sculpture. In his quest to capture velocity in his artwork, he rejects the “analytic discontinuity” of contemporary work (such as Duchamp's readymades) in favor of the “synthetic continuity” he sees in sculpture. He takes the medium of sculpture, and uses it for depicting his subjective abstract vision of human motion. Both works propose modern, subjective alternatives in response to logical positivism.

In form and style, To the Lighthouse is personal. Although time passes quickly in Part II, its purpose is to emphasize & shock the reader in hearing the deaths of Andrew and Prue. And the elegiac structure, even when commemorating something abstract, concretizes Woolf’s ideas of feminist strength into a single character. The purpose of subjective and mythic simultanity in To the Lighthouse is the beauty in the ephemeral and personal, the boef en daube, etc.’ In contrast, Unique Forms of Continuity in Space is impersonal and faceless. Umberto Boccioni often used the phrase “physical transcendentalism”. A common description of Unique Forms of Continuity in Space is exactly this, “the physical seems to lift itself by its own strength into the realm of the spirit”. The figure portrayed is something necessarily unreal, a nietzschean aspiration of total speed and not a real living person. This characterization is also present in the Futurist Manifesto, the ultimate inspiration of Boccioni, which exults a “velocity which is eternal and omnipresent”. The purpose of subjective and mythic simultanity in Unique Forms of Continuity in Space is something very impersonal, the induced trance of speed brought by technological advancement.

Although the two have similar points of inspiration and innovate in the same ways, To The Lighthouse and the Unique Forms of Continuity in Space ultimately diverge in the purposes which such innovation is put to. While both use spatial form to portray a mythic simultaneity and subjective truth, To the Lighthouse is ultimately personal while Unique Forms of Contiunity has an ultimately impersonal.


  

\[https://www.jstor.org/stable/27537575\](https://www.jstor.org/stable/27537575)

\[https://www.metmuseum.org/art/metpublications/umberto\\\_boccioni\](https://www.metmuseum.org/art/metpublications/umberto\_boccioni)\*\*

  https://www.societyforasianart.org/sites/default/files/manifesto\_futurista.pdf
**
