---
aliases: [social spectacle, sorbonne]
---
[[Media and Culture]]
[[@The Walls Have the Floor]]

*The Walls have the Floor* Paris 1968 protests

...
The situationists recognized that capitalism had changed since Karl Marx's formative writings, but maintained that his analysis of the capitalist mode of production remained fundamentally correct. Essential to situationist theory was ==the concept of the spectacle, a unified critique of advanced capitalism of which a primary concern was the progressively increasing tendency towards the expression and mediation of social relations through objects.==

Urban geography: ... Psychogeography could set for itself the study of the precise laws and specific effects of the geographical environment, whether consciously organized or not, on the emotions and behavior of individuals. 

As technology progresses, and work becomes exponentially efficient, the work itself becomes exponentially more trivial. 

# The spectacle's social function is the concrete manufacture of alienation. 

Economic expansion consists primarily of the expansion of this particular sector of industrial production. The "growth" generated by an economy developing for its own sake can be nothing other than a growth of the very alienation that was at its origin.

ANTI-MEDIA
the shift from individual expression through directly lived experiences, or the first-hand fulfillment of authentic desires, to individual expression by proxy through the exchange or consumption of commodities, or passive second-hand alienation, inflicted significant and far-reaching damage to the quality of human life for both individuals and society.

the _détournement_: similar to satirical parody, but employs more direct reuse or faithful mimicry of the original works rather than constructing a new work which merely alludes strongly to the original. 

_recuperation_, in which originally subversive works and ideas are themselves appropriated by mainstream media, i.e. barbara kruger & supreme.

