Seattle run tomorrow.

Need to grow the content on word dot golf page. There is a serious amount of depth that isn't displayed right now. 
- Philosophy:
	-  Word.golf is about the internal structures and categorization of human knowledge, about word vector position as ideal forms, and competing attempts at the human classification of worldly objects and things. 
	-  **It's not a game, its a sport.** It's a very pure sport. It's the philosopher's sport. There is no enforced arbitrary order but only the wilderness of language, the player must find an order which allows them to win.  It is played on a map of real things, a web of ideas with which people are immediately familiar
	- **It's not wikiracing**, which is limited by the arbitrary nature of links in a wikipedia page. Its more natural ? Sacred, ancient, simple, complex, pure, modern, self-contained, self-explanatory, self-justifying?

	- thoughts on strategies
		1. Evaluating relative strengths of words against one another
		2. Homonyms and their uses
		4. Matching part of speech over matching sentiment
		5. Exploiting news dataset biases
		7. Which derivations coalesce with original? *Person* does not usually coalesce with *Thing*, but *Many* will often coalesce with *One*.
		8. Depth-first/breadth-first searching
		9. Common solution pattern: memorizing word-pairs
		10. Common solution pattern: Going broad and then shallow
		11. Common solution pattern: Familarize with certain areas

- How to reward highly strategic play
	- group to group practice
		- noun:ANIMAL to noun:MINERAL
		- noun:ANY to adj:ANY
		- adj to adj
	
	- reward incremental progress: MULTIPLE WORDS collection
		- These can't be semantically related
		- chinese new year animals
		- words that begin with R??

Alright this is a good start. Grind content monday?
Check in later.
