---
date: '2023-04-14'
title: 'stats'
---
## Expected Value and Convergence
#### Convergence of Discrete CDFs

Let X be an discrete RV with CDF 
$$F_X(x) = \sum_{k = 0}^K p_k \cdot \mathbb{1}_{[x_k, +\infty)}(x)$$


If $\sum_{k = 0}^K p_k \cdot \mathbb{1}_{[x_k, +\infty)}(x) < +\infty$, then the expected value $\mathbb{E}X$ is 
$$\mathbb{E}X = \sum_{k=0}^{K}x_kp_k$$

If $\sum_{k = 0}^K p_k \cdot \mathbb{1}_{[x_k, +\infty)}(x) = +\infty$, then the expected value $\mathbb{E}X$ does not exist.

The mean of $x_kp_k$ is $$\sum_{k=0}^{+\infty}x_k p_k = x_0p_0 + x_1p_1 + x_2p_2 \ldots$$

But by our intuition, $x_0, x_1, x_2 \ldots$ are created equal! The order in which we add them doesn't matter. We should have

$$\sum_{k=0}^{+\infty}x_k p_k = \sum_{k=0}^{+\infty}x_{\sigma(k)} p_{\sigma(k)}$$
so that our sum is permutation invariant. In order to guarantee this equation above is true, we have two concepts:

- If $\sum_{k=0}^{+\infty}|x_k| p_k < +\infty$, then the permutation invariant is true. This also means that the series $\sum_{k=0}^{+\infty}x_k p_k$ is absolutely convergent.

- If $\sum_{k=0}^{+\infty}|x_k| p_k = +\infty$, then it is not permutation-invariant.


#### Convergence of Continuous CDFs

Let X be a continuous RV with PDF $p_X(x)$. 

1. If $\int_{-\infty}^{+\infty}|x|p_X(x) < +\infty$, then the expected value is $$\mathbb{E}X = \int_{-\infty}^{+\infty}xp_X(x)$$.
2. If $\int_{-\infty}^{+\infty}|x|p_X(x) = +\infty$, then the expected value $\mathbb{E}X$ does not exist.

**Remark**: The condition " $\int_{-\infty}^{+\infty}|x|p_X(x) < +\infty$" invovles something more subtle... "Lebesque integrals".

**Example**: Let X be continuous RV with the following PDF

$$p_X(x) = \frac{1}{\pi(1+x^2)}, x \in \mathbb{R}$$

The expected value does not exist. (to be proved in HW5)

## Transformations of RVs

$$\Omega = \{ \text {students taking APMA 1655}  \} (\omega \in \Omega: \text{is a student})$$

$X(\omega) = \text{ the score } \omega \text{ gets in the final exam }$

The professor wants to curve the score like this:
$$Y(\omega) = \min\{X(\omega)^2, 100\}$$

If $g(x) = \min\{x^2, 100\}$, we have $Y(\omega) = g(Y(\omega))$.
Suppose we are given
- RV $X: \Omega \rightarrow \mathbb{R}$
- a function $g: \mathbb{R} \rightarrow \mathbb{R}$

$$\Omega \rightarrow \mathbb{R} \rightarrow \mathbb{R}$$
$$\omega \rightarrow X(\omega) \rightarrow g(X(\omega))$$

We know how to calculate $\mathbb{E}X$. To compute $\mathbb{E}[g(X)]$ we need a new definition. 

#### Expected value of an transformed RV
Definition: Suppose $X$ and $g$ are given. 
1. Suppose X is discrete and has CDF $\sum_{k=0}^K p_k \cdot \mathbb{1}_{[x_k, +\infty)}(x)$. 
If $\sum_{k=0}^K|g(x_k)| p_k < +\infty$ then $$\mathbb{E}[g(X)] = \sum_{k=0}^K g(x_k)\cdot p_k.$$
2. Suppose X is continuous and has PDF $p_X(x)$. If $\int_{-\infty}^{\infty}|g(x)|p_X(x)dx < +\infty$, then $\mathbb{E}[g(x)] = \int_{-\infty}^{\infty}g(x)p_X(x)dx$. Otherwise, $\mathbb{E}[g(x)]$ does not exist!

This definition is actually a theorem in graduate-level probability theory course, called "Law of the unconscious statistician".

### Expected value of any RV
For a random variable who's CDF can be decomposed in this way... (all of them)
Definition: Let $X$ be a RV with the following CDF:
$$F_X(x) = p \cdot F_Z(x) + (1 - p)F_W(x)$$
where 
$0 \leq p \leq 1$, 
$Z$ is a discrete RV with CDF $F_Z$
$W$ is a continuous RV with CDF $F_W$.j

We define $\mathbb{E}X = p \cdot \mathbb{E}Z + (1 - p) \cdot \mathbb{E}W$, if $\mathbb{E}Z$ and $\mathbb{E}W$ exist.

### going back to a homework problem
$X = YZ + (1 - Y) \cdot W$ 
where $Y$ ~ Bernoulli($\frac{1}{3}$), $Z$ ~ Pois($\lambda$).
As we all know from homework problem 4.5, we have 
$$\mathbb{E}Z = \lambda$$
And also
$$\mathbb{E}W = 1000$$

Then $\mathbb{E}X$ is $\frac{1}{3}\lambda + \frac{2}{3}1000$, by the expected value of any RV. 

## Variance

Let $X$ be a random variable from some distribution. 

The distribution generates numbers $X_1, X_2, ... X_n$.

For example, if we use Bernoulli we will get 0 1 0 1 0 0 1 ...

Well, for this sequence, we can take the average $\bar{X_n} = \frac{X_1 + X_2 + ... + X_n}{n} = \mathbb{E}X$. But this is not exactly equal to $\mathbb{E}X$ for $n = 10$ or $100$...
For $n$ numbers, we have error as:
$$e_n = |\bar{X_n} - \mathbb{E}X|$$

What does the error $e_n$ depend on?

- $n$. For less $n$, the average is usually worse. That is, the average is not the true expected value for a distribution. 
  
- The distribution, of course!

### Simulation Study: Discrete

We can relate the error $e_n$ to the discrete distribution as follows.

Generate $X_1, X_2, \ldots X_n$ from Bernoulli($p$).

Claim: $e_n = |\bar{X_n} - p|$ is likely to be smaller than $$\sqrt{p \cdot (1-p) \cdot \frac{2\log(\log(n))}{n}}$$

$V$ here is $p(1-p)$.

### Simulation Study: Continuous

We have a similar error $e_n$ for continuous distributions.

Generate $X_1, X_2, \ldots X_n$ from Poisson($\lambda$).

Claim: $e_n = |\bar{X_n} - \lambda|$ is likely to be smaller than $$\sqrt{\lambda \cdot \frac{2\log(\log(n))}{n}}$$

$V$ here is $\lambda$.

> What does *likely* mean in this context? If we run a simulation $\infty$ times, then the number of simulations under the curve over the total number approaches 1.


### General conjecture

Assume that the expected value exists.
Generate $X_1, X_2, \ldots X_n$ from a distribution.

$e_n = |\bar{X_n} - \mathbb{E}X|$ is likely to be smaller than $$\sqrt{V \cdot \frac{2\log(\log(n))}{n}}$$

$V$ is the variance of $X$.

This is the [law of the iterated logarithm](https://www.wikiwand.com/en/Law_of_the_iterated_logarithm).

### Definition of Variance

Okay, now we go to a a result. The proof isn't related to anything above, only it's application.

Let X be a RV, whose expected value $\mathbb{E}X$ exists.

We define a function $g(x) = (x - \mathbb{E}X)^2$

We call $\mathbb{E}[g(X)]$ as the variance of $X$ if $\mathbb{E}[g(X)]$ exists. That is,

$$\text{V} (X) = \mathbb{E}[(X - \mathbb{E}X)^2]$$

Variance is nothing but the expected expected squared deviation from the $\mathbb{E}X$. That is, for every $\mathbb{E}X$ we will have an expected squared deviation. In turn, we have a squared deviation, $g(x)$ for each value of $X$.

### Concept Review 


#### 0 is not impossible
E is an event: $E \in \Omega$.

"E is impossible", $E = \emptyset$ means that $\mathbb{P}(E) = 0$.
But $\mathbb{P}(E) = 0$ does not mean that E is impossible!

#### 1 is not inevitable 
Similarly, 

"E is inevitable", $E = \Omega$ means that $\mathbb{P}(E) = 1$.
But $\mathbb{P}(E) = 1$ does not mean that E is inevitable!

#### constant (uniform) distributions

$X(\omega) = c \text{ for all } \omega \in \Omega$
$\text{Var}(X) = 0$

If $\text{Var}(X) = 0$, then there must $ \exists c$
$$\mathbb{P}(\{\omega \in \Omega: X(\omega) = c\}) = 1$$


### Law of Large Numbers (LLN)
A theorem that describes the result of performing an experiment a large number of times. 

Let $X \sim$ a distribution.
The distribution generates random numbers $X_1, X_2, \ldots, X_n$.

$$\bar{X}_n = \frac{X_1 + X_2 +\ldots + X_n}{n} \approx \mathbb{E}X$$

For example:

Bernoulli($p$) has $\mathbb{E}X = p$.
Pois($\lambda$) has $\mathbb{E}X = \lambda$.

Okay. So what does $\approx$ really mean?

And what other conditions do we need for this to be true?

#### RVs i.i.d.

Let $\{X_i\}_{i=1}^{\infty}$ be an infinitely long sequence of RVs defined on $(\Omega, \mathbb{P})$. As we know, we say $X_1, X_2, \ldots $ are independent if 
$$\mathbb{P}(\{\omega \in \Omega: X_i(\omega) \in A_i \text{ for all } i = 1,2,\ldots, n \})$$

Is equal to 
$$\Pi_{i=1}^n \mathbb{P}(\{\omega \in \Omega: X_i(\omega) \in A_i\})$$

They are not just pairwise independent. They are independent!

Definition: Let $\{X_i\}_{i=1}^{\infty}$ be an infinitely long sequence of RVs defined on $(\Omega, \mathbb{P})$. We say $X_1, X_2, \ldots$ are *independently and identically distributed* if 
1. $X_1, X_2, \ldots$ are independent.
2. $X_1, X_2, \ldots$ share the same CDF, i.e. $F_{X_1} = F_{X_2} = F_{X_3} \ldots $

Example: Mike Meng flips a coin. Taylor Swift flips a coin. The outcomes of these coin tosses are two random variables, are independent and share the same CDF.

### back to the LLN

Heuristic: 
$$\bar{X}_n = \frac{X_1 + X_2 +\ldots + X_n}{n} \approx \mathbb{E}X_1$$

Theorem: Let $\{X_i\}_{i=1}^{\infty}$ be an infinitely long sequence of RVs defined on $(\Omega, \mathbb{P})$. 

Suppose that $X_1, X_2, \ldots $ are independently and identically distributed.

Suppose that $\mathbb{E}X$ exists.

As we know, we can take the mean $\bar{X}_n $. Then we know that we have

$$A = \{\omega \in \Omega: \lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} \bar{X}_n(\omega) = \mathbb{E}X_1\}$$
This is the event that involves doing each of these RVs $X_1, X_2, \ldots$ in an infinite sequence once (getting some outcome for each) and then taking the average of them. 
Then $$\mathbb{P}(A) = 1$$

This does not mean that $A = \Omega$ (that A is inevitable).

$$\frac{X_1(\omega) + X_2(\omega) + \ldots}{n} \rightarrow \mathbb{E}X_1$$
The sample average converges to the population average with probability one. This convergence is not inevitable. For example, we have an experiment where we flip a coin an infinitely many number of times, one outcome of which $\omega'$ is all tails.

### infinite coin flips and all tails 
We flip a coin $\infty$ times.

$X_1 = 0$
$X_2 = 0$
...
$X_n = 0$
...
 An outcome is an infinitely long sequence of H and T
$$\omega = (H, H, T, H, T, \ldots)$$

$$\Omega = \{\omega = (\omega^1, \omega^2, \ldots \omega^n)\}$$

Each $w^i$ is either H or T.

$$A = \{ \omega \in \Omega: \lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} \frac{X_1 + X_2 +\ldots + X_n}{n} = \frac{1}{2} \}$$

We always get tails. This is possible!

$\omega = (T, T, T, \ldots)$
$$\lim_{n \rightarrow \infty}  \frac{X_1(\omega') + X_2(\omega') +\ldots + X_n(\omega')}{n} = 0 $$

Each $w$ is an infinite number of coin flips. The sample space has an infinite number of $\omega$, and an infinite number of those $\omega$ have an average of $\frac{1}{2}$. The law of large numbers says that $\mathbb{P}(A) = 1$.

If $\mathbb{E}X_1$ does not exist, the LLN is not necessarily true. 

If $X_1, X_2, \ldots$ are not independent, the LLN is not necessarily true. For example, if we set all of the random variables to a single random variable, the value will be 0 or 1, not $\frac{1}{2}$.

For each $i = 1,2, \ldots$

$$X_i(w) = X(w) \text{ for all } \omega \in \Omega$$
$$X_1 = X_2 = X_3 = \ldots = X$$
$$A = \{\omega \in \Omega: \lim_{n \rightarrow \infty}  \frac{X_1(\omega) + X_2(\omega) +\ldots + X_n(\omega)}{n} = \frac{1}{2}\}$$

The LLN anticipates $\mathbb{P}(A) = 1$.
However, $\mathbb{P}(A) = \mathbb{P}(X = \frac{1}{2}) = \mathbb{P}(\emptyset) = 0$


### Monte Carlo Integration

Let $X$ be a continuous RV with PDF $p_X(x)$ and $g(x)$ as a real valued function. Then we have

$$\mathbb{E}[g(X)] = \int_{-\infty}^\infty g(x) p_X(x) dx $$

$$\text{Var} [g(X)] = \int_{-\infty}^\infty (g(x) - \mathbb{E}[p_X(x)])^2 p_X(x) dx $$

For example, let $X$ ~ Unif(0,1) and $$g(x) = \arccos(\frac{\cos\frac{\pi}{2}x}{1 + 2\cos(\frac{\pi}{2}x)})$$

Then we have $\mathbb{E}[g(X)] = \int_{-\infty}^\infty g(x) \mathbf{1}_{(0,1)}(x)dx = \int_{0}^{1} g(x) dx$ = $\frac{5\pi}{2
}$. This can be found by doing $X$ many times and doing $g(x)$ of it.


### Generalized LLN

Suppose $X_1, X_2, \ldots$ be an infinite sequence of random variables. They are independently and identically distributed, and $g(x)$ is a continuous function. Furthermore that $\mathbb{E}[g(X_1)]$ exists. 

Define 

$$A = \{\omega \in \Omega: \lim_{n \rightarrow \infty}  \frac{g(X_1(\omega)) + g(X_2(\omega)) +\ldots + g(X_n(\omega))}{n} = \mathbb{E}[g(X_1)]\}$$

Then $\mathbb{P}(A) = 1$. More intuitively: the number of infinite sequences in $\Omega$, that have an expected value of $\mathbb{E}[g(X_1)]$, approaches all of the infinite series. 

The error $|e_n(w)|$ (the difference between $\bar X_n$ and $E[g(X)]$) is likely to be smaller than 

$$\sqrt{\text{Var}[g(X_1)] \frac{2\ln(\ln(n))}{n}}$$

This is known as the law of the iterated logarithm.

### Review of the LLN

Let $X_1, X_2, \ldots $ be i.i.d. and their expected values exist. When $n$ is large, 

$$\bar X_n(\omega) = \frac{X_1(\omega) + \ldots + X_n(\omega)}{n} \approx \mathbb{E}X_1 = \mathbb{E}X_2 = \ldots$$

Unless you are extremely unlucky.

### Law of the Iterated Logarithm

The law of the iterated logarithm is a result about a logarithm function involving $Var(X_1)$, stating that it is a good bound for the error.

Let $X_1, X_2, X_3, \ldots$ be RVs defined on $(\Omega, \mathbb{P})$. Suppose

- $X_1, X_2, X_3, \ldots$ are independently and identically distributed.
- $\mathbb{E}X_1$ and $Var(X_1)$ exist.

Intuitively, when $n$ is large, 
$$|e_n(\omega)| \leq \sqrt{Var(X_1) \frac{2\log(\log(n))}{n}}$$
is true for almost all $\omega$ in $\Omega$, so that $\mathbb{P}$ of these $\omega$ approaches 1.

Intuitively, when $n$ is large, 
$$|e_n(\omega)| > \sqrt{Var(X_1) \frac{2\log(\log(n))}{n}}$$
is true for almost no $\omega$ in $\Omega$, so that $\mathbb{P}$ of these $\omega$ approach 0.

### Law of the Iterated Logarithm (rigorous)

$$\lim_{m \rightarrow \infty}[\sup_{n \geq m}(\frac{|e_n(\omega)|}{\sqrt{Var(X_1) \frac{2\log(\log(n))}{n}}})] = 1$$

is true for almost all $w$ in $\Omega$, so that $\mathbb{P}$ of these $\omega$ approaches 1.

### An example: quantifying the error of an Monte Carlo integration

$U_1, U_2, U_3, \ldots  \sim $ Unif(0,1)

$$g(x) = \arccos(\frac{\cos\frac{\pi}{2}x}{1 + 2\cos(\frac{\pi}{2}x)})$$

$$\frac{g(U_1(\omega)) + \ldots + g(U_n(\omega))}{n} \approx \mathbb{E}[g(U)] = \int_{0}^{1} \arccos(\frac{\cos\frac{\pi}{2}x}{1 + 2\cos(\frac{\pi}{2}x)}) dx $$

$X_i(\omega) = g(U_i(\omega))$ for all $i$ and $\omega$

So that we have

$$\bar{X_n}(\omega) = \frac{X_1(\omega) + \ldots + X_n(\omega)}{n} \approx \mathbb{E}X_1 = \mathbb{E}[g(U)]$$

$$e_n(\omega) = \bar{X_n}(\omega) - \mathbb{E}X_1$$

Let's say that we want the error to be no higher than $10^{-5}$. Then we would have

$$|e_n(\omega)| \leq \sqrt{Var(X_1) \frac{2\log(\log(n))}{n}}\leq 10^{-5}$$

$$\sqrt{0.007556 \frac{2\log(\log(n))}{n}}\leq 10^{-5}$$

For error of $10^{-3}$ this would be n = 1.5 million!
<iframe src="https://www.desmos.com/calculator/nhj9hlxzek?embed" width="500" height="500" style="border: 1px solid #ccc" frameborder=0></iframe>


### Random Walks

We have 
$$\bar{X_n}(\omega) = \frac{X_1(\omega) + \ldots + X_n(\omega)}{n}$$

But we could also look at 
$$\bar{S_n}(\omega) = X_1(\omega) + \ldots + X_n(\omega)$$

This is a random walk!

Let $\{X_i\}_{i=1}^{\infty}$ be a sequence of RV defined on $(\Omega, \mathbb{P})$ and with $X_i$ i.i.d. For each positive $n$, we define $S_n(\omega) = X_1(\omega) + \ldots + X_n(\omega)$. The sequence $\{X_i\}_{i=1}^{\infty}$ is the random walk.

Example 1: 
$$\mathbb{P}(X_1 = -1) = \mathbb{P}(X_1 = 1) = \frac{1}{2}$$

Then $\{X_i\}_{i=1}^{\infty}$ is called the 1-dim simple RW.


### Central Limit Theorem: prelude

Review:

Let $\{X_i\}_{i=1}^{\infty}$ be a sequence of i.i.d. RV on $(\Omega, \mathbb{P})$. We have a sum 
$$ S_n(\omega) = X_1(\omega) + X_2(\omega)  + \ldots + X_n(\omega)$$

So $S_n(\omega)$ is a random walk. If we go one step further, we can take
$$\bar{X_k}(\omega) = \frac{S_n(\omega)}{n} \approx \mathbb{E}X_1$$
The average is only equal to the expected value $\mathbb{E}X$ when $n$ is large.

Additionally, we have the law of the iterated logarithm.

Now we will say the central limit theorem.

$$e_n = |\bar{X_n} - \mathbb{E}X|$$

$$\sqrt{n} \cdot e_n(\omega) \sim N(0, \text{Var } X_1)$$

when $n$ is large.

Potential applications of CLT:

- It's a different way of quantifying $e_n(\omega)$
- formulation of "hypothesis testing" and "confidence intervals" in statistics.

Okay, now we will define it in full.

### Central Limit Theorem

Let $\{X_i\}_{i=1}^{\infty}$ be a sequence of i.i.d. RVs on $(\Omega, \mathbb{P})$. Suppose $\mathbb{E}X_1$ and $\text{Var }X$ exist. We define a sequence of RVs $\{G_n(\omega)\}_{n=1}^{\infty}$ by 

$$G_n(\omega) = \sqrt{n} \cdot e_n(\omega) = \sqrt{n} (\bar{X_n} - \mathbb{E}X)$$

Heuristic version: when $n$ is large, $G_n$ looks like a RV following $N(0, \text{Var}X_1)$. 

Rigorous version: The CDF of $G_n$ converges to the CDF of $N(0, \text{Var}X_1)$ as $n \rightarrow \infty$:
$$\lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} \mathbb{P}(\{\omega \in \Omega: G_n(\omega) \leq x\}) = \int_{-\infty}^{x} \frac{1}{\sqrt{2\pi \cdot \text{Var} X_1}} \cdot \exp(-\frac{t^2}{2VarX_1}) dt$$

Under the conditions of the CLT, we have the following.
Heuristic version: 

$\frac{G_n}{\sqrt{\text{Var }{X_1}}}$ looks like a RV following $N(0,1)$ when $n$ is large.


Rigorous version: the CDF of $\frac{G_n(\omega)}{\text{Var }X_1}$ converges to the CDF of $N(0, 1)$.

This is as follows:

$$ \lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} \mathbb{P}(\{\omega \in \Omega: \frac{G_n(\omega)}{\sqrt{\text{Var } X_1}} \leq x \}) = \int_{-\infty}^x \frac{1}{\sqrt{2\pi}} \cdot \exp(-\frac{t^2}{2})dt $$

### Review of CLT

Let $\{X_i\}_{i=1}^{\infty}$ be a sequence of independent and identically distributed RVs,a nd the expected values and variances exist. We have

$$\sqrt{n}(\bar{X_n} - \mathbb{E}X_1) \sim N(0,\text{Var }X)$$
$$\sqrt{n}\frac{(\bar{X_n} - \mathbb{E}X_1)}{\sqrt{\text{Var }X_1}} \sim N(0,1)$$

When $n$ is large.

### LLN Approximation Error, from the CLT Viewpoint

We have two quantities, the average $\bar{X_n}(\omega)$ and the expected value $\mathbb{E}X_1$. 
We have

$$e_n(\omega) = \bar{X_n}(\omega) - \mathbb{E}X_1$$

We also have

$$e_n(\omega) = \frac{\sqrt{\text{Var }X_1}}{\sqrt{n}} Z_n(\omega)$$

For any $\delta \geq 0$:

$$\mathbb{P}(\{\omega \in \Omega: | e_n(\omega) | \leq \delta \frac{\sqrt{\text{Var }X_1}}{\sqrt{n}}\})$$
$$ = \mathbb{P}(\{\omega \in \Omega: | Z_n(\omega) | \leq \delta \})$$
$$ = F_{Z_n}(\delta) - F_{Z_n}(-\delta) + \mathbb{P}(Z_n = -\delta)$$
$$ = \mathbb{P}( -\delta \leq Z_n \leq -\delta) + \mathbb{P}(Z_n = -\delta)$$

We have $\Phi(x)$ to be the CDF of $N(0,1)$:
$$\lim_{x \rightarrow \infty} F_{Z_n}(x) = \int_{-\infty}^{x}\frac{1}{\sqrt{2\pi}}\exp(-\frac{t^2}{2}) dt = \Phi(x)$$

We have the following simplification:
$$= F_{Z_n}(\delta) - F_{Z_n}(-\delta) + \mathbb{P}(Z_n = -\delta)$$
$$\approx \Phi(\delta) - \Phi(-\delta)$$
$$\approx 2 \Phi(\delta) - 1$$

If we have $\Phi(\delta^{*}) = 0.975$, then we have $e_n(\omega) = 0.95$.
$$\delta^{*} = 1.96$$
This requires lots of computation.

$$\mathbb{P}(\{\omega \in \Omega: | e_n(\omega) | \leq \delta^{*} \frac{\sqrt{\text{Var }X_1}}{\sqrt{n}}\}) \approx 2\Phi(\delta) - 1 = 0.95$$

With 95% confidence, the approximation error $| e_n(\omega) |$ is smaller than or equal to $$| e_n(\omega) | \leq \delta^{*} \frac{\sqrt{\text{Var }X_1}}{\sqrt{n}}$$

Law of the iterated logarithm: we had
$$\mathbb{P}(\{\omega \in \Omega: |e_n(\omega)| \leq \sqrt{2\log\log n} \cdot \frac{\sqrt{\text{ Var } X_1}}{\sqrt{n}} \}) \approx 1$$

With 100% confidence we have
$$|e_n(\omega)| \leq \sqrt{2\log\log n} \cdot \frac{\sqrt{\text{ Var } X_1}}{\sqrt{n}}$$ 
When $n$ is large! 

When n > 1000, $\sqrt{2\log\log n} > 1.96 \approx \delta^{*}$

We can get a perfect upper bound. However, this upper bound is too large. However, with the central limit theorem, with the cost of 5% confidence, we can get a lower upper bound.

### Proof of Central Limit Theorem

Let $G_1, G_2, \ldots$ be a sequence of RVs.
We say $G_n$ converges weakly to a continuous RV $G$ if

$$\lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} F_{G_n}(x) = F_{G}(x)$$

for all real numbers $x$.

This is briefly denoted as $G_n \rightarrow_{w} G$.

Let $X_1, X_2, \ldots$ be i.i.d. RVs whose expected values and variances exist. We can define a error-like function called $G_n$ that is within a normal distribution:

- $G_n(\omega) = \sqrt{n}(\bar{X_n}(\omega) - \mathbb{E}X_1)$
- $G \sim N(0, Var X_1)$

$$\lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} F_{G_n}(x) = \text{the CDF of N}(0, Var X_1) = F_{G}(x)$$

### Moment-generating Functions

Used to describe a probability function.

Let $X$ be a RV.

We define a moment-generating function as 

$$M_X(t) = \mathbb{E}[e^{t\cdot X}]$$

provided that the expected value exists for all $t \in \mathbb{R}$.

$$e^{tX} = 1 + tX + \frac{t^2 X^2}{2!} + \frac{t^3 X^3}{3!} \ldots$$

We have the expected value of a sum involving a random variable to be the sum of terms involving an expected value of a random variable:

$$\mathbb{E}[\sum_{j=1}^{J}c_jg_j(X)] = \sum_{j=1}^{J}c_j \mathbb{E}[g_j(X)]$$

Applying this to our M_X^{t} we have
$$M_X^{t} = \mathbb{E}[e^{t\cdot X}] = 1 + t \mathbb{E}X + \frac{t^2 \mathbb{E}[X^2]}{2!} + \frac{t^3 \mathbb{E}[X^3]}{3!} \ldots $$

So then our derivative is 
$$ \frac{d}{dt} M_X(t) = \mathbb{E}X + t\mathbb{E}[X^2] + \frac{t^2}{2!}\mathbb{E}[X^3] + \ldots $$

At t = 0, our first moment is 
$$ \frac{d}{dt} M_X(t) = \mathbb{E}X $$

Our second moment is 
$$ \frac{d^2}{dt^2} M_X(t) = \mathbb{E}[X^2] $$

Our $k^{th}$ moment is 
$$ \frac{d^k}{dt^k} M_X(t) = \mathbb{E}[X^k] $$

### Theorem

Let $G, G_1, G_2, \ldots $ be a sequence of RVs.

Recall that 
$$M_{G_n}(t) = \mathbb{E}[e^{t G_n}]$$
$$\mathbb{E}[e^{t G_n}] = \int_{-\infty}^{\infty} e^{tx}p_X(x) dx$$

If $\lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} M_{G_n}(t) = M_G(t)$:

Then $$G_n \rightarrow_{w} G$$
If we have a convergence of the moment functions, then we have a convergence of the random variables!

### Theorem 

Let $X_1, X_2, \ldots, X_n$ be RVs.
$$S_n(\omega) = X_1(\omega) + X_2(\omega) + \ldots + X_n(\omega) = \sum_{i=1}^{n}X_i(w)$$

If $X_1, X_2, \ldots, X_n$ are independent:

$$M_{S_n(t)} = \prod_{i=1}^{n} M_{X_i}(t)$$

Furthermore, if $X_1, X_2, \ldots, X_n$ are independently distributed:

$$M_{S_n}(t) = (M_{X_1}(t))^n$$

### Two more lemmas

Lemma 1: Let $\{c_n\}_{n=1}^{\infty}$ be a sequence of real numbers satisfying $\lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} c_n$ = 0. If $\lim_{n \rightarrow \infty}c_n = \lambda$, then 
$$ \lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} (1 + c_n) = ?$$

Lemma 2:

If $G \sim N(0, \sigma^2)$. Then $$M_G(t) = e^{\frac{t^2\sigma^2}{2}}$$


## Proof of CLT

$$G_n = \sqrt{n}[(\frac{1}{n} \sum_{i=1}^n X_1) - \mathbb{E}X_1]$$

We move the average to the outside of the sum:

$$G_n = \frac{1}{\sqrt{n}}[\sum_{i=1}^n (X_i - \mathbb{E}X_1)
]$$

Given this fact, we can replace $G_n$ in our moment:

$$M_{G_n(t)} = \mathbb{E}[e^{tG_n}]$$
$$M_{G_n(t)} = \mathbb{E}[e^{\frac{t}{\sqrt{n}} \sum_{i=1}^n (X_i - \mathbb{E}X_1)}]$$

Because our random variables are i.i.d:

$$M_{G_n(t)} = \mathbb{E}[e^{\sum_{i=1}^n \frac{t}{\sqrt{n}} (X_i - \mathbb{E}X_1)}]$$

$$M_{G_n(t)} = (\mathbb{E}[e^{\frac{t}{\sqrt{n}} (X_i - \mathbb{E}X_1)}])^n$$

$$M_{G_n(t)} = ((\mathbb{E}[1 + \frac{t}{\sqrt{n}}(X_1 - \mathbb{E}X) + \frac{t^2 (X_1 - \mathbb{E}X)^2}{2n} + \ldots + \sum)^n$$

$$M_{G_n(t)} = (1 + \frac{t}{\sqrt{n}}(0) + \frac{t^2 (X_1 - \mathbb{E}X)^2}{2n} + \ldots + \sum)^n$$

$$\approx (1 + \frac{t^2}{2n} \text{Var }X_1)^n$$
$$\approx (1 + c_n)^n$$

$$M_{G_n(t)} \approx (1 + c_n)^n \rightarrow e^{\frac{t^2}{2} \text{Var }X_1}$$

This is the Moment generating function for $N(0, \text{Var }(X_1))$.

Thus, our function converges:

$$\lim_{n \rightarrow \infty} F_{G_n}(x) = \text{the CDF of N}(0, Var X_1) = F_{G}(x)$$

## Random Vectors

We have a vector $\bar{X}$ = $(X_1, X_2, \ldots, X_n )^T$ as a *random vector* defined on $(\Omega, \mathbb{P})$ if each of its components is a RV defined on 
$(\Omega, \mathbb{P})$. 

The CDF of $\bar{X}$ is an n-variable function
$$F_{\bar{X}}(x_1, x_2, \ldots, x_n) = \mathbb{P}(\{\omega \in \Omega: X_1(\omega) \leq x_1, \ldots, X_1(\omega) \leq x_n\})$$
$$= \mathbb{P}(\cap_{i=1}^n \{\omega \in \Omega: X_i(\omega) \leq x_i\})$$

$\bar{X}$ = $(X_1, X_2, \ldots, X_n )$ is said to be a continuous vector (continuous random variable, if length is 1) if its CDF $F_{\bar{x}}$ is differentiable (the derivative $p_X(x)$ exists everywhere on cumulative distribution function for $\bar{x}$)

The PDF of $\bar{X}$ is defined by
$$p_{\bar{X}}(x_1, \ldots, x_n) = \frac{\partial}{\partial x_1} \frac{\partial}{\partial x_2} \ldots \frac{\partial}{\partial x_n} F_{\bar{X}}(x_1, x_2, \ldots, x_n)$$

for $n = 2$:

$$p_{\bar{x}}(x_1, x_2) = \frac{\partial}{\partial x_1}\frac{\partial}{\partial x_2} F_{\bar{x}}(x_1, x_2) $$

The CDF for a continuous vector is hard to derive. The PDF is easier. Here is an example.

$$p_X(x_1, x_2) = \frac{1}{2\pi} \exp\{\frac{x_1^2 + x_2^2}{2}\}$$

Let $\bar{X} = (X_1, X_2, \ldots, X_n)$ be a continuous random vector with PDF $p_{\bar{x}}(x_1, x_2, \ldots, x_n)$. Suppose $g(x_1, \ldots, x_n)$ is an n-variable function. 

$$\mathbb{E}[g(\bar{X})] = \int_{-\infty}^{\infty}\int_{-\infty}^{\infty}\int_{-\infty}^{\infty} g(x_1, \ldots, x_n) \cdot p_{\bar{x}}(x_1, \ldots, x_n)dx_1 dx_2 \ldots dx_n$$

If 

$$\int_{-\infty}^{\infty}\int_{-\infty}^{\infty}\int_{-\infty}^{\infty} |g(x_1, \ldots, x_n)| \cdot p_{\bar{x}}(x_1, \ldots, x_n)dx_1 dx_2 \ldots dx_n < +\infty$$

We may consider the CDFs independently. Let $\bar{X} = (X_1, X_2, \ldots, X_n)$ be a random vector. If $X_1, X_2, \ldots X_n$ are independent, then

(i) $$F_{\bar{X}}(x_1, \ldots, x_n) = \prod_{i}^n F_{X_i}(x_i)$$

So for a set of independent criteria on a population, the probability is the same as the product of each criteria!

Furthermore, if $\bar{X}$ is a continuous random vector, we can just go ahead and sum the individual probabilities!

(ii)$$p_{\bar{X}}(x_1, x_2, \ldots, x_n) = \prod_{i=1}^n p_{X_i}(x_i)$$

Here is a proof for (ii) based on (i):

$$p_{\bar{X}}(x_1, x_2, \ldots, x_n) = \frac{\partial}{\partial x_1} \frac{\partial}{\partial x_2} \ldots \frac{\partial}{\partial x_n} \prod_{i}^n F_{X_i}(x_i)$$

Because we hold every other $x$ constant when doing one derivative we have
$$= \prod_{i=1}^n \frac{\partial}{\partial x_i} F_{x_i}(x) = \prod_{i=1}^n p_{X_i}(x_i)$$

### Theorem
$X_1, X_2, \ldots, X_n$ are i.i.d. RVs.

Define $S_n = \sum_{i=1}^nX_i$.

Then $M_{S_n}(t) = (M_{X_1}(t))^n$

Proof: To simplify the proof, we assume $\bar{X}$ is continuous. 
By definition:
$$M_{S_n}(t) = \mathbb{E}[e^{tS_n}]$$
$$ = \mathbb{E}[e^{tX_1 + tX_2 + \ldots + tX_n}]$$
Because addition in exponents is multiplication:
$$ = \mathbb{E}[\prod_{i=1}^{n}e^{tX_i}]$$

By definition of expected value:

$$ = \int_{-\infty}^{\infty}\int_{-\infty}^{\infty}\int_{-\infty}^{\infty} (\prod_{i=1}^{n}e^{tX_i})(\prod_{i=1}^{n}p_{X_i}(x_i)) dx_1 \ldots dx_n$$

$$ = \int_{-\infty}^{\infty}\int_{-\infty}^{\infty}\int_{-\infty}^{\infty} (\prod_{i=1}^{n}e^{tX_i} p_{X_i}(x_i)) dx_1 \ldots dx_n $$

$$ = \int_{-\infty}^{\infty} \ldots \int_{-\infty}^{\infty} (\int_{-\infty}^{\infty} (\prod_{i=1}^{n}e^{tX_i} p_{X_i}(x_1)) dx_1) dx_2 \ldots dx_n$$

By definition of expected value:

$$ = \int_{-\infty}^{\infty} \ldots \int_{-\infty}^{\infty} \mathbb{E}[e^{tX_1}] dx_2 \ldots dx_n$$

By definiton of moment:

$$ = \int_{-\infty}^{\infty} \ldots \int_{-\infty}^{\infty} M_{X_1}(t) dx_2 \ldots dx_n$$

$$ = M_{X_n}(t) \ldots M_{X_2}(t) M_{X_1}(t)$$

But all $M_{X_i} = M_{X_1}$, so we have

$$(M_{X_1(t)})^n$$


## Data, Models, and Inference

## Data
Before performing the experiment, we do not know the outcome. So we consider
$$\Omega = \{ \text{all possible outcomes} \}$$

Example: flip an unfair coin $n$ times. 
Then we have 
$$\Omega = \{\omega = (\omega^{(i)}, \ldots, \omega^{(n)})\}$$

Each $w^{(i)}$ is either $H$ or $T$. 

$X_1, X_2, \ldots X_n$ are functions defined on $\Omega$, and we know these functions. For example

$$X_i(\omega) = 1 \text { if } \omega^{(i)} = H$$
$$X_i(\omega) = 0 \text { if } \omega^{(i)} = T$$

Performing the experiment is equivalent to picking and fixing $\omega^* \in \Omega$. That is a fixed sequence like $(H,H,T, \ldots)$.

For the fixed $\omega^*$ we can define a collection $\{x_i\}_{i=1}^n$ of deterministic numbers by 
$$x_i = X_i(\omega^*)$$
for $i = 1, 2, \ldots, n$. This is like a single outcome.

The collection $\{x_i\}_{i=1}^{n}$ is called sample (data), and the $n$ is called the sample size. For example

$$\omega^{*} = (H, H, T, H, \ldots, T)$$
$$x^{*} = (1, 1, 0, 1, \ldots, 0)$$

## Models
Let $\mathcal{F} = \{F_\theta\}_\theta \in H$ be a family of real-valued functions satisfying the "CDF properties". That is, F(x) is non-decreasing. The limit of F(x) as x goes to 0 is 0, the limit of F(x) as x goes to infinity is 1, and F(x) is right-continuous.

The $\mathcal{F}$-based model is an assumption:

$\exist \theta^* \in \Theta$ and a probability $\mathbb{P}$ defined on $\Omega$ such that $$X_1, X_2, \ldots X_n \sim F_{\theta^*}(x) = \mathbb{P}(\{\omega \in \Omega: X_1(\omega) \leq x \}$$

If $\Theta$ is a subset of a finite-dimensional space, then the model is called a parametric model.

If $\Theta$ is a subset of an infinite-dimensional space, the model is called a nonparametric model.

One example. If $\Theta$ is the functions $\theta$ on (0, 1) such that 
$$\int_0^1 |\theta(x)|^2 dx < +\infty$$
$$\int_0^1 |\theta(x)'|^2 dx < +\infty$$

Smoothing splines.

## Statistic Inference

$\theta^*$ is unknown.
