---
date: '2023-06-23'
title: 'sem_nl'
---
### Semantics of Natural Language 
#### Donald Davidson, Gilbert Harman

The first essay in the collection is by Charles J. Fillmore, over subjects, speakers and roles.

- The very first thing we need to do in sentence analysis is divide it: into the **subject** and the **predicate**.
- The **subject** is the person or thing about whom / which a statement is made or question asked.
- The **predictate** is the statement or the question asked.
- In Chomsky's formal grammars, these parts are the nounphrase (NP) and verbphrase (VP).

Similarly, to Chomsky there is a real, deep, structure and a surface structure. The following example:

1a. Pianists play piano
1b. Pianos are played by pianists

Has the same deep structure, but a different NP as subject. There's an argument that 1a is analytic (breakdown, giving definition, saying nothing new) while 1b is synthetic (combining, making statement, saying something new). The first feels more redundant than the second.

Author believes the semantic relevance of the subject/predicate distinction should be sought only in the deep structure.
#### subject semantics
The semantic role of the subject is not always the same. The boy in each of these:

"The boy slapped the girl". 
"The boy fell down".
"The boy received a blow". 
"The boy has blue eyes". 

Appears not to have a common notional property of "subjectness" which semantic descriptions can exploit. If we would like to think the **subject** defined in the configurational way (as above) must be relevant to the semantics of the sentence, we have to think some more.

First we note something. There are verbs which have both intransitive and transitive uses, and show the same semantic role regarding the S and DO respectively. For example: rotate, break:

2a. The cylinder (S) rotated
2b. Fred rotated the cylinder (DO).

3a. The lens broke.
3b. Fred broke the lens.

One popular proposal is that the transitive sentences contain the intransitive sentences embedded to CAUSE.

2c. Fred cause (the cylinder rotate)
3c. Fred cause (the lens break)

The appearance of underlying intransitive verbs in transitive-verb positions is a "matter of surface detail".
In effect, we can think of transitives as S cause (verb).

4a. Peter put the beer in the icebox.
4b. Peter cause (beer be (in icebox)). 

This makes it possible to modify the sentence like:

4c. Peter cause (beer be (in icebox)) (for three hours) ==  Peter cause (beer be (in icebox) for three hours)

#### direct object semantics
The semantic role of the direct object is not always the same. 

"I smashed the pumpkin"
"I grew the pumpkin"
"I like the pumpkin"


There are illocutionary statements:

Your threats don't bother me 

To deal with illocutionary force, we must deal with the participants: person deixis (speaker and addressee), place deixis, time deixis, discourse deixis (anaphora?), honorific systems. 

> In anaphora, the referent is an element of the current discourse itself, whereas in deixis, the referent is outside the discourse in its spatiotemporal surroundings

