---
date: '2024-12-20'
title: '12-20 notes'
---
You know what it is it's the fact that you were able to interact with toehrs in a meaningful way very breifly through text when you were younger and this was closer to  pure joy tahn the other methods. But what are the disadvantages, well they are many. In that the meanings of words change and twhat you say once is not ... Like what does it mean to be literary -- there is no such thing s good writing except to a particular person. Like you say you want to make art that speaks to individuals no matter what background they are, but that's a false egalitarian premise, you've always 

ONLY BEEN ABLE TO MAKE ART ABOUT YOURSELF AND THOSE WHO YOUARE CLOSEST TO 

that doesn't lessen the impact but you shuould admit taht youare lying to yourself and work towards creatign more objects, primarily complex written constructions, or essays, or visual diagrasm and symbols and connections which do work to Inspire and create joy in toehrs. You can't do this through the method of free speech because you can't speak for shit but you could work on it. Remmember that your who le childhood was a license to dream and to make whatever you wanted and what you made was fantastical and partially hinged on real subsutances, the realest substance being those of sacrifiice and duty tosome higher power of masculine intent. Then, what you did was ....

What you did was create a dead man walking. Snd you can identify that it is dead. There's something here that speaks to everyone. Or at least to someone omore than myself. I think the primary readson why someone whould be interested in language is as an unanalysable entity. So that what linguistic notions convey is in fact nothing through langauge but rather a kind of solopsistic 

SADISTIC

joy about what it is that you like, like h my god I don't need pictures to function I don't need pictures to think yes you do you fucking moron. So what it means to be able tow rite about a place ina convinceing and samrt way si more than being able to cut at the heart of whatever it is that you want to say, ut also the ability to 

STEP OUT

of the shell in which you work and feel something that is less than extrapolational. but what people can be really good at is the ability to tie together threads of extrapolation, so that to describe something is a convincing colection of disparate threads. That is fundamnetally whta percpetion is about, the tying together of threads. So that you can learn to see through text. You can learn to see .... the things which we find the most important, whcih are usually not going to be a random landscape or a thing... well what is it that you want to get at when you wrdraw as a landscape is that there is something greater out there, that you have a fundamental dissatsisfication with the routiines of life as you are living them, and that there s a way out of the mmonotnony by considering the purity of lines and geometry. What is geometry, well its a very very very very simple thing. What is simple about it? The fact that it is 

No, that;'s not the case. it isn't true that geometry is very simple. But the way taht it grows complex is different from the way that you woiuld expect it to. So the only reason that someone might find these joyhs to be more impactful is because of their own upbringing. For me, waht it is that I look for with math and art is the ability to express my words as symbols in their own r ight, to examine myself unfitlered by any linguistic nonsense. So that I really want to bea ble to avoi the 

Avodi doing work. What work. Is there work to be done? Yes there is, there is so much that you haven't written about or generated or thought through. You can't let your own thoughts about the world to fade away so quickly t the onset of pressure. Nbody cares ?(? x. except for yourself, right. Snd that's the most important thing. )

Wrong,w rogn again. What you really want out of the study of lingusitics is a faster way to access the art of aobservation,a ndyou rea lly don't need to wrorryr about that. It won't help in becoming a serious professional artist, thoguh. And what does it mean to be a professional? I means that you are willing to sacrifice things in your life to accomplish what it is that should be done. 



### Coraline
What is really freaky about the idea of replacing the eyes is that they are the spectacle through which all of coraline is conveyed e.g. through the screen. The spectacle includes the talking, fuzzy giraffes, the blossoming, happy flowers, the circuses of mice, but it is all focused on Coraline specifically. The idea behind corelaine is also that nightmares are more vivid tahn reality in many cases. 