---
date: '2025-03-12'
title: 'notes from 3-12-2025'
---
不考“缠足、男装、剑、诗文、改良
派、派、痛恨、谋反、逮捕、浙江、绍兴”

value prop
need 
product or service envisioned
market

Potential research mentors

CRAFT 


Self-supervised video model: task to infill patches in a model.
Do intuitive physical principles emerge in V-JEPA for predicting from shared abstract embedding spaces. 

Intuitive Physics: core knowledge. infant's understand core knowledge already. So they are deterctable from observation alone. 

Limits on simulation approaches:  2018

JEPA: The goal is to predict representation of original video from corrupted one. We compute surprise metric from predicting representations of N frames, based on M past ones. Closed, Open Video evaluation? Closed / Open Video LLMs?

Your goal is to implement the second half of LSH during the second half of the bus ride from the station out. read the guide carefully and do it right.

class FastMonotonePriorityQueue():
	def __init__(self, C) -> None:
		self.queue = [[] for i in range(C)]
		self.min_index = -1

	def isEmpty(self):
		if self.min_index == -1:
			return True

	def insert(self, item: PriorityItem):
		self.queue[item.priority].append(priority)
		self.min_index = 0
	
	def extractMin():
		min_bucket = self.queue[self.min_index]
		while(len(min_bucket) == 0):
			self.min_index += 1
			#Other than no insertions, the only opportunity for IsEmpty to go from F to T is after extractMin follows an insert
			if(self.min_index > C):
				self.min_index = -1
				return None
			min_bucket = self.queue[self.min_index]
		return self.queue[min_bucket].pop()
		
			
			
def extractMin():
        if self.min_index == -1:
            return None
	min_bucket = self.queue[self.min_index]
	while(len(min_bucket) == 0):
		self.min_index += 1
		#Empty
		if(self.min_index == C):
			self.min_index = -1
			return None
		min_bucket = self.queue[self.min_index]
	return self.queue[min_bucket].pop()
			


I would prefer the word true!

Yeah I guess it's hard when it isn't like stuff you could come up with yourself
I see that feels like it would be more relevant maybe but idk what you learn

从一方面看，这个句子收起来像个笑话。华裔来美国，不能找到工作，就打算开起餐馆。从另外一方面来看，这个句子强调美中关系不公平。有些人可能会说，中国有麦当劳，有肯德基，等等。可是，这些公司越来越看起来像一群狼，无情的从国家到国家走。前两年，特斯拉被美国的新闻媒体强烈的批评了。他们开始创造展厅在新疆省。因为很多人对中国政府的‘再教育’计划很生气，他们觉得这样的行为很道德。

作天是我饭馆的星开业。这么多年以后，我终于找到了一个可相处的专业。我在大学的时候，我没在想我后来会做的工作。我的父母警告我别出美国跟老K，留在中国做老师。可是，我不相信他们，来美国没过两月就意识到老K的情感灭绝。我工作了十多年，在旅馆做服务员。我开了一个小饭馆在旧金山，可是呢边做生意实在太难了。我换了城市，昨天晚上遇到了一个校友。这是一个好的象征，我得继续努力。


liquid crystal
Harry S. Truman
21068 1656
359 269

Recommendation

- couldn't pinpoint what the recommendation was. 
- intraocular lenses
- Considerations needed to make the surgery:: dilutes the heart of the argument. Don't lead with the issues, burying the lead.
- need to make the recommendation.
- thesis statements. "will be crucial" . "These sales will allow" "likely considerable interest" "they may seek outside investment". "not suficient to supply the more than 10 million"
- Finetuning to final draft. 
- "they may seek outside investment"
- connect the work linearly.
- organize the content for the middle paragraph.
- No summary, assuming audience has the necessary information. 

r1 = L(k-1) + 3
r2 = 2L(k-1)

.*,(.*,.*)


Rhodo

In what sense can we think of the tech industry as a unified front on crafting ignorance? With the tabacco industry, there's a clear reason for them to create ,

119B --> 119A

pengxianglan@stumail.neu.edu.cn

Transforming freeform generation tasks to multiple choice question answers: examining long-form generation beyond single tokens. 

Examining gradient differentials through LM queries.

在生育权的问题上，我认为女性的权利是最重要的。很难想一个好原因为什么国家或者家庭的权利会跟重要。在二十世纪，中国的一家一孩子的政策

net profit margin: 1.56


Okay philadelphia review. Overall the city reminded me of washington DC if it was more urban and sprawling. I didn't really get to visit any parks but the bridges were spectacular and the billboards reminded me of the space advertisements from Cowboy Bebop. At least downtown definitely had a professional quality to it. I loved staying at Apple Hostels they had a coffee machine and a really cozy lounge and everything. The area around the art museum seems cool but I didn't get to check it out.

I found the library really impressive and I think it's probably cooler than the Brown ones. I think you guys have more access to art and art-making supplies than Brown. My family all said that the vibe of UPenn was really similar to Brown and I agree cause most of the lounges and green areas are the same, except UPenn is much closer to a large urban area. Brown definitely feels a step removed from the city itself and if there are neighboring buildings they are usually RISD or historical preservation / single family homes. 



Marketing: branding, and loyalty


Task unification:
- T-shirt DIY alteration: cut lines are printed on to allow modification.

Division
- Geolocating devices have two components: finding an object, and letting you know where it is so you can retrieve it. 
- Instead of paying for finding objects, you pay for the retrieval itself.

- Most internet media services are subtraction of physical media. 

- Water bottle that regulates temperature.
- Bicycle 

- Slack is a terrible place to create a record of work, because messages go away after a short period of time. What if your messages went into two separate channels, one of which was permanent.

Chaining Identity Random is fastest.

Identity-Random is the slowest.
Chaining is slower than Linear Probing.
Linear Probing is the fastest.

Linear Probing Universal is slower than Python.
Linear Probing - Python - Periodic is the fastest.

