---
date: '2026-03-28'
title: 'Notes on M3 3-27-2026'
---
To detect openHandles via jest and npm test, can use

```
npm run test -- --detectOpenHandles m3.student.test.js
```


m3 is first-class support for fully dynamic groups of nodes.
- allows service customization on a node-group basis.
- adapts the system to multiple scales.

###### Node.js process

The node implementation has `local.status.get`, for inspect the nodes own process, `local.status.stop`, for stop process, `local.status.spawn` for spawn new process running `distribution.js`. The process is an ==API== which has command-line args, memory, PID, exit behavior.

Within status.stop, response should occur to the calling thread and then the stop with `setTimeout`. That is, an HTTP request to a node should do the following:
1. *first* call the callback
2. *then* stop the server and let process end.

`const process = require('node:process')`
Is instance of `EventEmitter`. `'beforeExit'` event when Node.js empties its event loop. Synchronous operations: when an operation is called in time.

onStart: allows passing of function when node finished booting, takes optionally the HTTP server so that it can manipulate or stop the HTTP server.


Right now, we are debugging the same issue with server hang at `start` and `stop` which we previously encountered during m3. We needed to import the `node` library and `comm` before to get the code to run.

##### req & res: HTTP

res is the `http.ServerResponse` object used to communicate to the client from the server (or the receiver). An example server response on a request is the following:

- status: 200 OK
- header: Content-Type: text/plain
- body: hello

**M3 modifies the set of local services to provide the following:**

|         |                                              |                        |
| ------- | -------------------------------------------- | ---------------------- |
| Service | Description                                  | Methods                |
| status  | Status and control of the current node       | get, stop, spawn       |
| groups  | A mapping from group names to nodes          | get,put, add, rem, del |
| gossip  | The receiving part of the gossip protocol    | recv                   |
| routes  | A mapping from names to functions (services) | get, put,rem           |
| comm    | A message communication interface            | send                   |
The `put` method within groups allows insertion of a local `names-to-nodes` map. These also instantiate the `distribution.<gid>` object, and attach the distributed version of each service to that object.

Local.comm.send allows communication of `gid/service/method`. This should allow remote execution, e.g. `status.get` via `mygroup/status/get`. 
