---
date: '2026-03-01'
title: '3-1-2026 RISD notes 2-27-2026'
---
April
I love the backdrop for the clorox bin and the reddish shadows, in contrast to the yellow of the banana. The planning with the folds of the cloth are very deliberate. The cloth could be made slightly more loose, it feels like it is floating in the bottom side. The top of the clorox is also a bit detached from the perpsective as lily said.  I really love the ridges in the cup that make it almost look like a fossil.

Asa Phillips
The stark black backdrop reminds me of your earlier piece and gives it a cosmic, Rainbow Road vibe to the piece. I like how you personalized the lego pieces and made them have more character than just square plastic pieces. I can't tell exactly what the blue strip is doing out in the real world, but it certainly makes the composition much nicer and centers the picture.

Astoria
I really love the colors shining out of the right and middle pears. The lack of any really firm shadows gives the whole piece a very ethereal impression, like a memory or a vision of fruit. The background could have had even more development, I want to see the same crazy colors spilling out of the mostly red and yellow ground. 

Durius
These are really interesting choices of color and composition. There's a complete absence of yellow which gives it an eerie feeling, and the missing letters from the Coke give it this supernatural quality as well. I wonder if you could develop the geometric abstract properties of the medicine bottle more. I agree that the rabbit could have been developed more. I really like the choices you made with balancing the perspective of the pool table and the flatter backdrop so far, and hope to see it developed in a more dramatic fashion.


Emerson
Each of these vessels have a similar shape and I enjoy seeing how you teased out the different properties of each. Out of the three objects I find the yellow aerosol the most interesting, maybe because there's a noticable change in the chroma there. I also enjoy seeing the blue tin in the foreground and think they interact well in relation the brown and midnight blues. I like the subdued tones on the red cup -- I'm intrigued by the shape and how it was developed almost in piecework. I would have used longer brushstrokes but I get why you did it this way too.

Emily
I love the way the perfume bottle and the cap are emphasizing the yellow backdrop, and the liquids in the bottle are all really well done. Both the bottle and the strawberry feel very real to me, and the blue guys are really making different parts of the world fit together. 

I love the attention you paid to the box and the jewel scales. You're very consistent with the colors for each particular shape. I think the stormy backdrop is really intense and makes the position of the pikachu and monkey seem like sailors navigating a small boat along a shoreline. The yellows and blues also reinforce this. I wonder what other objects you could have emphasized the yellow for than the cloth. It certainly isolates the other objects and adds to the natural interpretation I'm getting

Emily W
In contrast to Emily C's piece you chose a wildly different color for the backdrop. The blue for the pair of scissors is throwing me off a little bit, although I like how each of the objects has little bits of color attached to them. I like the shadows coming out of the cup handle, which is almost the centerpiece for the piece, and I think the background has an interesting role in pulling the eye towards the center. 

I really admire the temperatures in the still life and wish I could paint things with that much care. In particular the red hues between the pikachu cheeks and the shoe differ very subtly and I love the way each bit interacts with the painting as a whole.


Can have a lot more color in the red and yellow pieces in the foreground, and use the color more in the corners. Should use more saturation with the main shapes. 

The simplicity and vagueness of the cylinder fire container in the background is really well painted. Draws the attention to the main focus in the front.

Eric: I really love the transparency of the plastic bag, the effect there is really gorgeous. The closer can feels a bit more solid then the one in the back.

I’m really impressed by how you capture strong shadows, whenever I see your pieces I’m convinced that a shadow is a shadow instead of a random change in colour

Eric: I think the color palette and usage feels really nice and controlled, and the shadows especially in the carpet and the back canister works really well. I do think some form description in that back trash can could be applied but overall the feel of the piece is really nice and relaxed.

Eric: I think the values of the piece are solid and the hue differentiation is clear. However, I think the saturation could be pushed, and some objects edges could be separated more. And I think the background could be simplified more that way it doesn’t pull attention from the still life.

The matte-ness of the blue is really a great stylistic choice, and the way you carved out the shapes and outlines is really neat. I also think those white highlights and blue shadows on the red disposable containers is really magnetic! Maybe try blending with a drier brush, or slightly damp gamsol brush to get different textures

I think it might be good to consider the composition and which objects you want to focus on before starting to paint. This piece is very ambitious and there is a loooot of detail you would need to finish if you want to continue with the level of rendering you completed the foreground objects in

Eric: I think there could be a shift in the value of color in the backgrounds. I admire the delicacy of your brushstrokes for the objects, they depict the planes very wonderfully. I feel like the pikachu could have a bit more treatment and rendering, the planes and proportions seem off to me. I wonder if it would have been better if you zoomed the composition closer?

Eric: I enjoy how you simplify/limit your colors in both your paintings. It communicates just the right amount information without looking flat. For your in-class piece, I feel like the background slightly clashes with the subjects so it would be nice to push the background back by lowering the contrast

Seeing with forms and shapes. Bottom left hand side. White part doesn't need that mountainlike blocks. These are marks on the table itself. Think more about the plane changes, how the surfaces interact with each other.

Ibis
I really like how you painted the dots in the top right corner. You use a flat circle shape in a lot of places which gives things a really nice cohesion. 

Jackson
This is definitely one of my favorite pieces I've seen so far. I agree with Yoahn as to the drama created with the weight of different objects. The yellow light filtering through the background is spectacular and I love the intense and moody feeling it brings in between the other objects. 

I really like the yellow and white tones of the light on the cup and how it quickly fades to the black. The choice of using a blue light in the backdrop works well with the hand.

Sam
I really like how dark your painting is and the details you rendered on the briefcase. It has a very relaxed feeling and doesn't detract from the flying plush creature.

The cloth backdrops are rendered really well and I love to see the differences in the contrast for the yellows and purples. I also appreciate the purples and yellow reflections from the silver vase.


Sherlock
I really love the differences in sizes here and the way it almost looks like a glossy ad for a suede leather couch. I really love how the black looks as well. The use of the faces throughout this is quite passive, and I wonder if the composition could have dived deeper into making them work together.

Your in-class piece feels similar to the one you did on your own. I really like how you were able to describe the creases with variable shades of blue. This makes me think I need to reexamine how the color wheel works for individual objects.

Sophie
(hw) I really love the contrast between the purple of the cloth and the warm brown backdrop, and how the honey bottle is a nice middle ground between them. Some of the white on the pot seems a little overdeveloped. I enjoy the intense reds coming from the bottom corner as well.

(in-class) I really like the dark backdrops and think it makes the foreground objects stick out well. I agree with Yoahn about the box's shape, although I think it synthesizes with the upper space well. There's an interesting greenish tint that's happening with the shadows on the yellow. The whites on the table works well in terms of value with the monkey too.

Yiyi
(hw) The way you're able to keep the shadows projecting a coolness despite the little blotches of warmth is so well done. It's hard to depict the paper-like quality of the box and I think you did a good job at that as well. I wonder if there should be more shadows under the jam with the same colors as well.

(in-class) Again all the edges are really well formed and I enjoy the pinks that you chose for the monnkey in the foreground. I wonder if the blue plastic dummy could have been emphasized more or removed entirely from the painting. 


