---
date: '2024-07-21'
title: 'reu'
---
I'm concentrating in linguistics and math/computer science, and one of the Linguistics DUG leaders. I love art and see my concentrations as the ideal way to make defensible claims about intangible objects. Among other things, I've made an online sport played with the meanings of words, created an sonority-based IPA fontface in a RISD class, and made geoart with the OpenStreetMap API. I like nature!

I am a researcher at an NSF-funded REU opportunity at the University of Colorado Colorado Springs. I work on linear approximation of transformers (the architecture behind ChatGPT). The internal mechanisms of transformers are very complicated, but it turns out that certain prompts that elicit an object from a subject ("Miles Davis plays the trumpet") can be approximated linearly, and I am working on extending and interpreting these results. It's exactly the intersection of linguistics and computation I've always been interested in!

The most exciting thing about my summer experience has been discovering things that make me think about language models differently! There's a ton of really exciting work coming out and it feels like we are just scratching the surface of how these models are functioning. As you can probably guess, the most challenging thing is trying to contribute. There's been a lot of times I thought I discovered something new, but it ends up being just a reinterpretation of someone else's work.

I looked at resume samples and went to one resume review session, which helped quite a bit. I looked at all the REU opportunities on the eTap website and applied to the ones I thought I was a good fit for. My rec letters from my UTRA experience with the Wilhelmus Lab, and my data/GIS work at the library definitely helped.

Be resourceful and creative in where to look and what to list on your resume! My UTRA research from the spring was in a completely unrelated field but it ended up being crucial for the REU submission process (most require at least two rec letters, and preferably one from a research opportunity).