---
date: '2024-09-30'
title: 'Frequentist Accounts in L'
---
Against Markedness argues that the concept of 'markedness' in linguistics is ambiguous, not readily transparent, and not explanatory enough to justify its continued usage. The author outlines several main categories of usage for the term, corresponding to a denotation of complexity, difficulty, abnormality, and as a multidimensional correlation. While the author notes that linguists have strong intuitions for markedness in their respective subfields or programs (demonstrating that it retains transparency in usages), they seem to believe that a single shared definition should still exist for the field as a whole, which does not make sense to me.

There are plenty of examples in which markedness is characterized as a more specifically rarity, difficulty, or unnaturalness, and the author converges on frequency and ease of production as an alternative explanation for many uses, including overt coding. For example, 'plu', feathers, in Welsh is seen as odd because 'pluen', feather, is traditionally a coded form, yet when viewed through frequency it is more typical to refer to the plural. I agree that frequency is sufficient to explain (for example) phonological change, but disagree with the notion that markedness is not a useful disambiguating term. In particular, the argument against markedness as a metagrammatical concept, is the weakest and most important one to be made. I also agree that it holds no explanatory power as a purely descriptive term, but believe that it is clearly useful when discussing typology or language design. At the example level, a verb that is 'not marked for tense' is much clearer than 'not tensed' or 'untensed'. Markedness is a natural extension of this descriptive system.

I believe this next point has been mentioned in class and reiterated in this paper, but I'll try to rephrase it somewhat. One issue with frequency as an explanation is that it is inherently linked to variables outside of what many people consider linguistics. If there is universal grammar or abstract structures to language independent of environment and circumstance, introducing frequency and information theory as explanations is a terrible thing. This relates heavily to the fifth usage outlined of markedness, as a general property of human culture. The term they introduce of 'default expectation' to explain markedness is interesting, and I think that these factors are absolutely relevant to language. The concepts of covert prestige and overt prestige are interesting on a game-theoretic level, and I feel that idiolects evolve according to a complex combination of these factors. A simple example would be economical everyday greetings being overturned by more complex forms due to a desire for differentiation.

