---
date: '2024-07-15'
title: 'Lunar 7-15-2024'
---
Jake and Mikey presentations.

pushdown automata: A finite automata with a storage device (stack).

Jake presentation: Cognitive Science background.
#### Jake: Human curriculum effects emerge with ICL learning in LMs

Rapid rule inference vs. trial and error learning.
- In chess, you can infer rules about how the game works
- Or, you can try to learn by trial and error.

Category learning: 

People learn better with interleaved examples in non-rule like cases 
... but learn better with block examples in the rule-like cases.
A B
C D 

Compositional generalization: blocking advantage A A A A B B B ... 
- generalization over common attributes (or process of elimination)
Non-compositional generalization: Procedural learning system A B AA B A B B ...
- no generalization over common attributes.

*Blocking refers to the finding that less is learned about the relationship between a stimulus and an outcome if pairings are conducted in the presence of a second stimulus that has previously been established as a reliable predictor of that outcome.*

- in-weight learning is done through error-backpropagation.
- Emergent ability: in-context learning (!)

ICL: compositional generalization, IWL: non-compositional
IWL only: catastrophic forgetting: learning all A or all B. Interleaving advantage with fine-tuning.
ICL has the blocking advantage. 

IWL can compensate for rotation after fine-tuning.

LLMs exhibit compositionality, and the blocking advantage

#### Mikey: Vision Transformers capture relations between objects
- image classification: a semantic task
	- There are pixel correlates to effects

Images are easy to derive semantics and hard to derive syntax, language is easy to derive syntax and hard to derive semantics.

Syntax relations: same vs. different relation
Do models possess an abstract notion of same-different, or are they looking at pixels?
CLiP-3: same-different finetuning achieves 99.3% accuracy.

Do Vision Models form object representations? We use counterfactual intervention to determine if there is an object representation within the model layers. Causal extraction analysis. Linearly disentangled notions of shape and color. We replace the base with a counterfactual object representation.

If same/different relation can operate on this new color variable, we think the model can distinguish between colors. Most of the time, it does work for both shape and color, the model accuracy falls after layer intervention.

- My understanding is that the intervention is on a single layer, have you tried intervention on multiple layers? The representation of same and different seems to be abstract, but the computation is not fully abstract.

- The intervention is only causal at layer 5. 
- The model could do whatever it wants with same/different up until final prediction
