---
date: '2024-05-25'
title: 'RoBERTa'
---
---
aliases:
  - BERT
  - Masked Language Modeling
---
Used 2.2 trillion tokens to train on. 

Basically BERT (used 137 billion tokens) with better training.

We present a replication study of BERT pretraining (Devlin et al., 2019) that carefully measures the impact of many key hyperparameters and training data size. We find that BERT was significantly undertrained, an;d can match or exceed the performance of every model published after it. Our best model achieves state-of-the-art results on GLUE, RACE and SQuAD.

(1) training the model longer, with bigger batches, over more data; (2) removing the next sentence prediction objective; (3) training on longer sequences; and (4) dynamically changing the masking pattern applied to the training data.  

We also collect a large new dataset (CC-NEWS) of comparable size to other privately used datasets, to better control for training set size effects. When controlling for training data, our improved training procedure improves upon the published BERT results on both GLUE and SQuAD. When trained for longer over additional data, our model achieves a score of 88.5 on the public GLUE leaderboard, matching the 88.4 reported by Yang et al. (2019). Our model establishes a new state-of-the-art on 4/9 of the GLUE tasks: MNLI, QNLI, RTE and STS-B. We also match state-of-the-art results on SQuAD and RACE. Overall, we re-establish that BERT’s masked language model training objective is competitive with other recently proposed training objectives such as perturbed autoregressive language modeling.

