---
date: '2024-07-13'
title: 'The Canon'
---

If the electrons are to take on any organized, extracurricular activities, they must feel inspired. They must be animated. They must eat.

power plants create electric currents by spinning *copper coils* inside of giant magnets at very high speeds. This hyperexcites the electrons inside the coil and and they are then transmitted along power lines.

Charging is segregating existing electrons so that they can run again.

- covalent bond: two molecules sharing electrons to be satiated.

- molecule: usually refer to covalent bonded substance, but also other bonds: such as sodium chloride (ionically bonded, two words not one?). Condiments, eggshells, household cleaning supplies. Ionic bonds are stiffer and more predictable than covalent bonds.

- Ionic bonds join different elements: bond between ions (charged, negative atoms). ion-plus seeks ion-minus. ==Different elements are prone to being negatively or positively ionized==, but they can only be one. 
	- One or two electrons in outer shell == high chance of negative ionization.
	- Almost full outer shells == high chance of positive ionization. 
	- two factors at play: the fact that elements have equal proton and electron counts, but also desire to fill outer shells with electrons.

Sodium want to give away electron -- 2/8/1.
Chlorine want an extra electron: one short in outer shell.
Sodium Chlorine :  Sodium-Chlorine +

- finally metal bonds: "electron sea", fluid electrons moving from one atom to another

H2O is polarized, as the electrons are closer to the oxygen, so the bottom half is more negatively charged. So the integrity and clinginess of water is formed by hydrogen bonding 
In general hydrogen bonding is when hydrogen is attached to heavier molecules, and the bottom molecule is slightly more negatively charged.

- are there other kinds of bonds?

electron antipathy explains why we don't go through things

Pottery clay is held together by the Van Der Waals force: the mild polarization created by a lot of molecules in the same area: electrons seeking protons.

Also a graphite pencil leaving a mark is the Van der Waals force being disrupted.

ionic solids tend to be brittle. 2/3 of human dry weight is carbon. So organic chemistry (carbons chemistry) is important. Carbon is 4 electrons, four holes. Covalent bond between two carbon atoms is very, very strong.  

Breathing: in oxygen, out carbon dioxide

DNA is zipped up by the hydrogen bond

==Proteins are tangled up and pleated by hydrogen bonding==

Frying an egg destroys hydrogen bonds to make egg whites.


Chemistry! Physics 0070! Electricity!
Be more complex, less centered on sweet and salty experiences and find sour, bitter, umami ones.

chemical reactions produce ==new== things.
baking is endothermic in the sense that the chemical reactions are taking in heat.

fruits breath in oxygen and exhale carbon dioxide

""I do not know what I may appear to the world, but to myself I seem to have been only like a boy playing on the sea-shore, and diverting myself in now and then finding a smoother pebble or a prettier shell than ordinary, whilst the great ocean of truth lay all undiscovered before me."

_Indricotherium_: giraffe rhinocerous

Cell division and maintenance genes are the longest lasting and most shared: we share 1/5 of our dna with yeast

Natural selection is the force that transforms drift and randomness into the gift of extravagance. It takes the doctrinaire sloth of the second law of thermodynamics, the tendency of every system to get frowzier over time, and hammers it into a magic, all-purpose, purpose-making machine that turns around and breaks entropy at the knees.

Whales; artiodactyls: hoofed ungulates: pigs, camels, cows, hippos

echidna, pangolin, anteater: large, sickle-shaped claws, long sticky ribon, elongated muzzle without fur, enlarged salivary glands, strong stomach.

Life functions through the specialized chemistry of carbon and water, and builds largely upon four key families of chemicals: lipids for cell membranes, carbohydrates such as sugars, amino acids for protein metabolism, and nucleic acid DNA and RNA for the mechanisms of heredity. Any successful theory of abiogenesis must explain the origins and interactions of these classes of molecules.


A counter to those who say that modernist architecture is soulless
- good architecture prioritizes function over form: form follows function
	- emphasizing the aspatiality of a building, excontemporaneous
	- but the reality is, functional requirements for a space out in the world are often as arbitrary as formal ones.
- Prioritizing function will work over small scale time periods, prioritizing form works over longer ones. Clearly a sphere is ideal in some sense. For what purposes then should it serve? Ornamentation is the natural consequence of living in a space.

