---
date: '2023-02-18'
title: 'PF_journal_4'
---
I find it easier to understand set notation than I did before. In following the logic/ separating it from particular proofs from MATH 540, I didn't struggle much -- primarily it was understanding the conceptual basis and knowing where to start proofs that I struggled with.

I do feel better equipped, and I really, really enjoy thinking about counting problems. I think one benefit of this class and others is realizing the advantages of strict notation as opposed to intuition. The reason many of courses have begun with set theory is so we can draw distinctions between classes of objects.

The proof you demonstrated from permutations to combinations was really interesting to me, because it involves a set partition and the addition principle, which we just covered in APMA 1655 (the third axiom for a probability space is  that the probability of the infinite union of sets is equivalent to the infinite sum of probabilities of sets, given that the sets are disjoint). I also find the modus tollens strategy interesting, as it relates to my Morality class. Essentially: "If morality is relative, we would act a certain way. But we don't act that way, so morality can't be relative!":

"Suppose the reason anthropologist and undergraduate Relativists backslide is that Relativism has implications that we do not or even cannot accept. Then the objection could be cast as a modus tollens argument: if Moral Relativism is true, then so are these consequences; but the consequences are false, so Moral Relativism is false." 

