---
date: '2023-02-11'
title: 'PF_journal_3'
---
Helpful parts of the course structure includes doing lots of exercises, and challenging exercises! I really like going to class, being able to attempt problems in a judgement-free setting, and getting things wrong, instead of listening to someone lecture and half-absorbing content.

I'm not facing any challenges yet, but I would find it very helpful to get fast feedback on my problem sets. Previously, there was around a three-week delay for some of our problem sets to be graded, and that really impacted my ability to absorb the feedback in a useful way. I like that the peer review system allows you to get some help almost instantaneously!

It's been about what I expected, maybe slightly easier; the second problem set was also on the basics of set theory, which I did not expect. I think I'm learning a lot from this class, however: between the whiteboard sessions in class and looking at the way others solve problems, it is shaping me into a well-rounded mathematician. 

Some things that I am curious about include why we find it more intuitive to look at circular diagrams as opposed to rectangular ones (my hypothesis is that the "squareness" implies a false degree of certainty), the relation between logic and basic building blocks of computation (half-adder, perhaps?), the relation between logic and fields, infinite sets and cardinality of the power set of the natural numbers, and if we can derive anything mathematically useful from the notion of "fuzzy sets".

Some more things I am curious about include Peano arithmetic, the system of defining numbers as sets, the ZF axioms, and basic proofs in number theory!
