---
date: '2023-02-21'
title: 'PF_goals_5'
---
Goal 1: written communication: effective solutions to problem sets, LaTex typesetting, articulating questions

Which course activities are you engaged in that you expect will help develop progress towards this goal?

Writing solutions in class on whiteboards, walking through the steps of a proof (e.g. permutations to combinations) with others. Balancing motivation and exposition in writing solutions (avoiding repetition, as much as it seems tempting). Typesetting tables, borrowing LaTex proof template (commands and amsthm) from this class to Statistics and Deep Learning. Learning to use align environments. Listening more closely to peer explanations, asking questions about the properties of concrete objects.

What evidence are you collecting/can you collect to document and measure your progress? What does an "A" look like to you for this goal?

My solutions to problem sets and my engagement in the classroom. It looks like improved typesetting and less dead air in class.

Goal 2: problem solving skills, specifically on problems that others struggle with

Which course activities are you engaged in that you expect will help develop progress towards this goal?

Writing solutions in class, doing problem sets. Walking through proofs on my own, reconstructing other people's thinking, reframing problems in other terms (union of disjoint sets that exactly cover a set is a partition), borrowing other people's terminology. Having more useful things to say. An increase in viable strategies before I give up.

What evidence are you collecting/can you collect to document and measure your progress? What does an "A" look like to you for this goal?

My problem sets and my notes from class. It looks like increased confidence and correct solutions to problems.

Goal 3: finding and illustrating interesting properties of mathematical objects

Which course activities are you engaged in that you expect will help develop progress towards this goal?

Writing solutions in class and doing problem sets! Trying out thought experiments (visualizing a circle per circle as an infinite collection of 3D cones, for example). Going through set theory and logic, recasting familiar problems in these terms. Solving more problems.

measure your progress? What does an "A" look like to you for this goal?

Through effective communication of a question or property, thought-provoking answers, or better yet new questions to pursue.