---
date: '2023-04-03'
title: 'rlhf'
---

question: what about cases when the two goals are not really polar: why is it that selling an airline ticket (commercial) is opposite to undesirable (social) behavior.

positive doesn't feel like the opposite of negative here. maybe we can view successful models as having multiple tasks (selling airline tickets, and not insulting customers). Maybe one of these tasks encompasses the other...

goal task / compliance task


RL is defined wrt a MDP (Markov Decision Process). We need to define
- states
- actions
- how an agent executes an action to reach a new state
- a reward function that takes an action and state and returns a scalar.

policy function: given a state, return action or distribution of actions. In policy gradient methods, we train the policy function directly. 

We CAN use Q-learning to identify an optimal policy for MDPs. The only real reason we use policy functions with RLHF is because it's easy to distribute over hardware. 

### MDP notes

given any current state $s$ and action $a$, together with any next state $s'$, the expected value of the next reward is 

$$P^{a}_{ss'} = Pr \{s_{t+1} = s' | s_t = s, a_t = a\}$$

### how do policy gradient methods work?

We have some agent who has a policy. It interacts with the environment a number of times. Each interaction is an episode! Over each interaction, the agent follows a trajectory (of states!). 

To train:
- compute N episodes
- For every episode, compute the gradient of our policy function
- reweight gradient by cumulative reward
- rinse and repeat

### PPO
advantage: how much better a decision at a timestep is than ever other decision.

$$A(a_i) = R_{i} + V(S_N) - V(S_{N+1})$$

How do we figure out what advantage is? We learn it??

### Conclusion
Another model does the annotations based on human feedback.


