---
date: '2023-02-18'
title: 'beras'
---
In this assignment, we will be constructing a Keras mimic, Beras. There are no TODOs in the notebook; rather, the testing is done by running the main method of `assignment.py`.

The stencil provides a model class with several methods and hyperparameters to use in the network.


Labs 1-3 have important skills I will need:

1. Implementing Callable and Diffable Components
2. Implementing Optimizers
   1. Can implement BasicOptimizer by following the logic from gradient_descent method in lab 1.
3. Using batch_step and GradientTape
   1. batch_step and GradientTape mimic the Keras API.


Intro contains information on the functions I'm coding.
Test contains unit tests for functions.

### preprocessing Task 1
Fill in the load_and_preprocess_data function
- flatten and normalize input images
- convert data to Beras.Tensor


### Task 2 one-hot: 
Categorical data does not have pre-determined ordering.
- implement fit() in beras/onehot.py
  - use np.eye for one-hot encodings
- one-hot encode training and testing labels in assignment.py
- call() in beras/onehot.py 
  - passes a vector of all actual labels in training set, calls fit() to populate the uniq2oh dictionary with unique labels and corresponding 1-hot encodings
  - returns: an array of 1-hot encoded laels for each label in the training set.
- inverse()

### Another task:
Abstract classes of models:
- Callable
    - CategoricalAccuracy: computes accuracy of probabilities against list of ground truth labels.
    - OneHotEncoder: one-hot encoding a class instance into a probability distribution (?).

- Diffable
  - We use Diffable to represent differentiable layers for which we can compute gradients for:
    - Dense GIVEN
    - LeakyReLU
    - MeanSquaredError GIVEN

- Dense example of diffable (notes)

### Task 3: implement gradient method of GradientTape
which returns a list of gradients corresponding to the list of trainable weights in the network (weight gradients).

In HW1, to assign gradients we just had to call MSELoss.backward(), which calculated the gradients and passed them backwards.

In HW2, to assign gradients we want to follow how Tensorflow does it. It centralizes the operation within gradient_tape. 

Start at output (Loss), work through same operations implemented in each backward in HW1, and move backwards following the inputs and weights encountered.

### Task 4: implement _initialize_weight()
    - default to initializing all at 0 (bad idea)
    - Normal: normal allows for unit normal
    - Xavier Normal: xavier allows for keras.GlorotNormal
    - Kaiming He Normal: kaiming allows for keras.HeNormal

### Task 5: Sigmoid(): call(), and input_gradients() 
### Task 6: LeakyReLU(): call(), and input_gradients()

These activations are per element: override compose_to_input() to vectorize across outputs (?) an easier way to do the backwards pass?

compile(): initalize model optimizer, loss function, and accuracy function, which are fed in as arguments for SequentialModel instance.

fit(): Trains model to associate input to outputs. Training is repeated for each epoch, and the data is batched based on argument. It also computes metrics.

### Task 7: evaluate()
Evaluate performance of final model, like fit() does.

### Task 8: call()
assignment.py/SequentialModel/call(). Each layer has exactly one input vector and one output vector.

### Task 9: batch_step()
Compute model predictions for batch. Compute gradients and update weights with GradientTape; use optimizer, and compute/return loss and accuracy. 

### Tasks 10-12
Basic Optimizer
RMSProp
Adam

# Task 13
Beras/metrics.py/forward(): categorical accuracy?

# Task 14: 
get_simple_model(): based on the simplest model in get_simplest_model(), construct a simple model that uses my implementations, has two layers, and uses MSE while binding predictions to [0,1].


## Overview
- HW2 conceptual
- Beras, make SequentialModel in assignment.py
- test SequentialModel with main method of assignment.pyi
- included notebooks only for reference
- README with model accuracy
- Grading: achieve the desired accuracy

