---
date: '2023-03-23'
title: 'enoch'
---
Enoch: Survival is good. That is the one very fortunate coincidence. One very fortunate coincidence is tolerable. 

Dworkin
Rain: If you discover that you've been hypnotized to believe it is raining by a man who pulls meterological conditions out of a hat, you should suspend your belief about whether it is raining.

Affirmative Action: If you discover that after a scalotopic brain scan you suddenly become compelled to believe in affirmative action, then you should have no reason to revise or soften your beleifs about affirmative action.

Can natural properties be "lucky"? It's a strange thing to say.  How "unlucky" we are that $\pi$ is transcendental! But it literally could not have been any other way.

Which coincidences "cry out for explanation"?
Perhaps those for which "there are possible alternative explanations (divine intervention?)"

Would it make sense to have a superpower doing something?

Problems for naturalism so far:
- good isn't the name of a property
- the supervenience of the good on the natural
- how do we know good and bad?

Moral properties do have to be queer, because ...
- because they have that property of to-be-doneness to them
- The Open Question Argument
- The Problem of Disagreement

Maybe ... Moral properties DON'T have to be queer.
First, the problem of DISAGREEMENT.

If moral judgement is just descriptive judgement about the natural world, then people using different criteria seem to be talking about different things. There were the Carmen people, who were using the word "Yahkt". And people thought it meant "bird". But they weren't using it to describe bird, they were using it to describe something else: how these things fit into their lives. 

Sometimes you can get rid of a disagreement by simply saying, they have different definitions for the same word. But sometimes this doesn't work so well.

Operationalism: the meaning of a scientific term is entirely given by the observable tests (e.g. species)

Scientific realism: whatever it is that explains all of the striking similarities between material (it has the atomic number 77, which explains its malleability, heat conductivity, density etc.)

Naturalist: Okay, maybe moral facts don't have to-be-pursuedness associated with them. But doesn't the definition basically require them to have to-be-pursuedness built into them? 

De re: \{there exists a: a is the right thing to do and peter wants to do a \}

de dicto: \{Peter wants there exists a: a is the right thing to do and peter does a\}

