---
date: '2023-05-03'
title: 'final'
---
### Are moral properties natural properties?

We all have our own meanings for words. This makes philosophy accessible, but sometimes infuriating. It is why questions like "are moral properties natural properties?" make sense to me and to someone who has spent their whole life writing about these things. With this disclaimer out of the way, by my definitions of *moral* and *natural*, I believe that they are not identical, but reflective of one another. As a result of this, I believe that moral properties exist.

To me, one of the strongest arguments for them not being the same draws from mathematics. There are formal notions of identity that are weaker than equality. These include isomorphism, equivalence, and others. So the properties can also be viewed in the same way: not equal, but reflective. I believe they are different enough to avoid reductionism of the moral to natural properties. However, I also believe that ethics and science are similar enough to avoid skepticism about their existence of moral knowledge.

### Some Differences

We will begin by looking at some of their differences. R.M.Hare wrote: 
"Let us take that characteristic of “good” which has been called its supervenience. Suppose that we say ‘St. Francis was a good man.’ It is logically impossible to say this and to maintain at the same time that there might have been another man placed exactly in the same circumstances as St. Francis, and who behaved in exactly the same way, but who differed from St. Francis in this respect only, that he was not a good man."

But this does not in fact, follow logically from St. Francis being a good man. In my view, Hare's use of "logically" is purely for rhetorical effect. Hume used the is-ought gap to defend his objective nature of reality (a stark one devoid of *oughts*), but it can also work here. If there does exist another man who shares every natural property with St. Francis, we cannot derive any *ought* from this. We know that St. Francis himself is good; yet we cannot talk about whether his doppleganger is good, because we don't know. Clearly, R.M.Hare's challenge does not pose a problem if the moral and natural are not the same, and the moral does not supervene on the natural.

A similar line of reasoning makes the existence of Moral Twin Earths doubtful. We are asked to imagine an Earth that is exactly like ours in natural properties, but with everyone on the planet as utilitarian, committed to making very different decisions than ours. To me, imagining such a world is inconceivable. We cannot know, with certainty, any moral properties based solely on natural properties. If a world full of utilitarians did exist, I believe that it would be very different than ours.

One other way moral and natural properties are very different is as follows. If you point to a pond and say "this is H2O", what you are claiming is fundamentally different than when you point to teenagers setting fire to a cat and saying "this is wrong". In the first one, you may say things like "this is H2O" even if that is all you know about it. As a seven-year-old, I was very prone to doing these things. In contrast, you cannot say "this is bad" without believing you have the whole picture. The assertion of scientific fact does not require you to be understand why believe you are right, while ethics does. 

A more succinct illustration of my point is as follows. In science, you can be technically correct all the time: like I was as a seven-year-old. In ethics, such a thing is impossible to imagine. 

Observe that the following statement makes sense:
Technically, the largest desert in the world is Antarctica. 

But that this one doesn't:
Technically, polygamy is wrong.

If I were to hear the second statement, I would immediately assume the statement to be in the context of a specific moral system or set of rules, such as Christianity. I would never see the second statement as an expression of genuine belief. It seems to me that the role of *technically* is to distinguish between the *actual* (technical) and the *intended* meanings of a statement. For example, it is *technically* the case that Antarctica receives little rainfall and meets qualifications for a desert. However, the *intended* meaning of "the world's largest desert", that people would find suitable, is something like the Sahara. 

Because you cannot qualify a moral statement with *technically*, it follows that the actual meaning of moral terms like "right" and "good" is exactly the intended one. In, this way, it seems clear to me that moral properties cannot be reduced to natural ones. 

### Some Similarities

Now that I have argued why moral and natural properties are different and non-reductive, we will look at their similarities. Finding these similarities will help defend against arguments by those who do not believe in their existence. 

Many people are skeptical about the existence of moral properties as moral knowledge. Following Hume, my basic point of view is that if you have this skepticism, it should extend not only to moral knowledge, but to all of it. The field of ethics is often compared, aspirationally, to the natural sciences. Yet to me it seems very reasonable to say there are no facts in science. We may reject the hypothesis that there is a correlation between two things, or we may fail to reject it, but we can never accept it. When we deal with the real world, as ethics and natural science clearly do so, we can never fully escape uncertainty.

One experiment which is said to cast doubt on moral knowledge involves comparing two observations. One is a physicist observing a proton in a cloud chamber; the other is a woman observing teenagers setting a cat on fire. In the first, it seems that scientific observation of the physicist is both the cause and effect of their theory about the physical world; the direction of causation goes both ways. in the second, the moral observation of the woman is solely effect of her theory about the moral world: only theory influences observation. If observations cannot change moral judgements, how can moral knowledge exist?

I believe that we are committing a fallacy when we compare the two. To be more precise, we are comparing a scientific observation against a moral aplication, which are not the same at all. The analogue should not be between the skeptical, intrepid scientist testing their hypothesis against their evidence and the woman blindly saying "this is wrong". It should be between the skeptical, intrepid scientist testing their hypothesis and the skeptical, intrepid woman testing their own moral hypothesis.

What might such a moral hypothesis and revision look like? After seeing the cat set on fire, the woman might believe that minding her own business is right; until her own beloved pet is set on fire the next day. She wonders if she should be more assertive in her own neighborhood; having made such a resolution, she stops a robbery the next week.

This series of events certainly seems scientific, with a hypothesis, a test, and revision. However, one objection might be that this kind of hypothesis seems removed from the essence of moral philosophy. The most moral lesson she may have learned is something like "You ought to stop others from endangering you and your community". Surely in the beginning, she still believed that the teenagers did something wrong. Then, is it the case that her moral philosophy did not change at all?

To me, the important thing is that she changed her reaction and would in fact act differently the next time. As she became more aware of her ability to change the outcome of the world, her knowledge of moral properties with respect to herself changed accordingly.

Another possible challenge to the existence of moral properties comes from Mackie, who says: "If there were objective values, then they would be entities or qualities or relations of a very strange sort, utterly different from anything else in the universe". Furthermore, Mackie finds it supremely unsatisfying that the only way in which we may find objects to have moral properties through a "special kind of intuition". 

The notion of objective values is indeed very strange. By their nature, they seem not to exist in the real world. Yet, science does not seem to deal with objective things either, but instead very good approximations of them. George Box says, "all models are wrong, but some of them are useful". Neither scientific or moral theory makes claims towards universal truth. Furthermore, in my view neither really deals primarily with the abstract primitives that *do seem objective*. In the case of physics, these are numbers, in the case of ethics, these are right and wrong, or good and bad.

It's clear that when Mackie's argument is applied to the domain of numbers, these questions become absurd. Numbers are utterly different from anything else in the universe. We are able to count, we have a "special kind of intuition" about what two or three things are, but there is nothing strange about this. There is nothing about the existence of numbers that is crying out to be explained.

We can say that numbers are integral to physics; but we cannot say that it is what physics is *about*. In the same way, right and wrong are integral to ethics, but are not what ethics is *about*. It is very weird for someone to praise "goodness" or "rightness": "I love being good! Being good is the best!" These statements feel vacuous and empty because moral properties are abstract notions that gain meaning only when they have been assigned. 