---
date: '2023-02-17'
title: 'comp_sem'
---

$P_X(x_0) = F_X(x_0) - lim_{x\to x_0^-}F_X(x)$

### kinship terms

N "of PP": `<e, <e,t>>`
<e<e,t>> : parent as parent'(y)(x)
x is the parent of y

how to reduce the information here? maybe every individual has parent metadata, such that MaryJohn-Jake.

- x is sister of y iff x is sibling of y and x is female

pibling: parent's sibling. auncle

Generally, English kinship terminology can be reduced to three variables: gender (F/M), parent-of, and spouse-of. We might have parent-of (bottom-up) or child-of (top-down). Several children, fixed parents.

Either no gender expressed or gender is on (x), the person the kinship term refers to.

- Can we encode gender for both the y and x? (paternal grandmother? maternal grandfather?) The english language currently does not. 

A thought experiment about the terms "wife" and "husband": if you only learned the meaning of wife by looking at the world, x is wife of y: it could be a female spouse of y, or spouse of male y. However, because we know that, as a general rule, gender is marked on x (the subject), we know that 'wife' must be the *female* spouse of y, not the spouse of male y.

grandmother: female parent parent 
great-grandmother: female parent parent parent ...
mother-in-law: female spouse parent

## semantic classes of verbs

given any intervval I, if some state holds during I, it holds for all subintervals in i (every point in I)

"I was asleep for a whole 8 hours last night!"
"I was working for a whole 8 hours last night!"

### durative adverbs

"I was asleep"
"I was asleep for a whole 8 hours": a state holds uniformly for some interval: adverbial phrase, maybe "for a whole 8 hours last night". We can say "for an hour" specifying INTERVAL.

- State verbs are bad with things like "in an hour", which specify culmination points specifying POINT.

- State verbs are usually bad with imperatives: "be tall". However, there are states in conscious control that you can use imperatives with, e.g. "Be happy" and "Be nice". 

- State verbs are often odd with progressives, although not always. Examples of ungrammatical state verbs in the progressive sense:
  - "be red" -> *"The book is being red"
  -  "know" -> *"I am knowing the answer"
  -  "be large" -> *"Loki is being large".

Exceptions include reflections, where the state verb is more activity-like: "think" -> "I am thinking that I should not try to cover so much material". This is because most activity verbs have accomplishment senses in special contexts. 

### activities

In general, activities denote 'events' rather than 'states'. Often, but not always, these events are under the conscious control of the subject: e.g. Sally ran. However, we also have activity verbs "roll" -> "the ball rolled". Activities don't have to have agentive subjects.

We have temporal consistency, but for larger subintervals: "she is running" does not imply that someone is running every second. 

- We can say "ran" -> "Sally ran for an hour" (durative adverbs) (INTERVAL).

- Activity verbs are also bad with things like "in an hour", because there is no culmination point: *"Sally ran in an hour" (POINT). 

- However, if we add an adjunct endpoint such as "Sally ran to the store in an hour" it works because it makes the verb phrase telic.

- With activity verbs, we have imperatives as many activities are under conscious control.

- In general, activities and states are **atelic**, where they do not have a specific end point, while accomplishments and achievements are **telic**, where they have a end point. These are properties of the verb phrase and not the specific verbs.

### achievements

Achievements have a culmination point:

die, reach the summit, notice the flea...

They have instantaneous success (sort of).

- Achievement verbs are bad with "for an hour" because that wants states or activities with internal temporal consistency (INTERVAL).
- Achievement verbs are usually okay with "in an hour" (POINT).
- Achievement verbs are generally strange with imperatives

Some can be paraphrased as become + state (will return, become dead, become aware...)

### accomplishments

Accomplishments have a preparatory/activity phase and a culmination point (usually transitive verbs with objects). 

Activity -> become + state

build a house: you can be building a house and you can have built a house. write a paper, bake a cake, destroy the evidence, eat an apple... Some are verbs of creation and some verbs of destruction. The accomplishment "mow the lawn" is interesting because it is not an act of creation but is treated like one (well, actually it is because you are striving towards an idealized goal, but by the negative: "cut hair", "sculpt bust"). 

It often takes very little to make an accomplishment statement ("I am writing a book", "I am learning to play the piano"), because the activity can be trivial.

Running is an activity (interval), but she was running is a state (point).

